-Haircare as personal care.
-You're talking personal care haircare.
-We play in the other haircare.
-[Nikhil] Haircare is seven billion?
-Skincare is?
-Haircare is 7-8 billion.
-Of which majority is oil, by the way.
-You're confusing us!
You're talking about haircare
or personal care haircare?
No, I want to know the break-up
of skincare, makeup, hair, fragrance.
[inaudible conversations]
Ready? Start?
I thought you would have done
a bunch of interviews by now.
No, not too many.
-A few you would've done.
-Yeah, a few.
-Typical CNBC.
-I've actually never done any CNB--
-I've never done any, like, news things.
-Yeah.
I've never done any, like...
Just like... We just did, like,
Vogue Beauty Honours right now.
So... I'll show up there.
That's my... That's the extent.
I think we just have to wait for Diipa.
Diipa will arrive.
-You know her already?
-Yeah, yeah.
-Very well?
-Decently well.
We made a plan to catch up last week,
but we couldn't. So, I've never met her.
Yeah.
Never met her.
Actually, I never met Shantanu also.
-No, we've only interacted on WhatsApp.
-Yeah.
-Her brand is doing really well.
-Yes.
Like, crazy well?
She is just launching, if I'm not wrong,
in Sephora, US.
She's doing very well in Sephora, UK.
She's doing very well in India.
So, she's gotten the right markets,
I think.
Her strategy for, like...
And, I think, which is great
for, like, any new founder also is...
She focused very clearly
on, like, one product.
-Which is?
-Which is her Champi Hair Oil,
which, I think, is easily, like,
50-55% of her sales.
What's the price point?
I think it's about 1,200 to 1,300 rupees,
the big one.
The big size, I think, the 100ml.
And then, it's about, I think,
900 for the smaller one.
-Oil is a tricky market.
-You know? But she...
Hair oil is a tricky market.
Her storytelling also has been
really, really good.
Ready? Start.
Is it the crew I know?
Where are they?
No, never mind. No, all good.
Yeah?
So, I know Bhakti a bit already.
-Because of Bangalore, Bangalore.
-Yeah.
-The Bangalore connection.
Her husband is also a friend.
He's also a very talented musician,
by the way.
Yes.
And he's in a band which practices, like,
200 metres away from my apartment.
-Oh, God.
-And I've been to their jamming sessions.
-No way!
-Yeah.
What's his name? What does he do?
Tejas Goenka,
and he is currently managing director
of Tally Solutions.
So, it's a family-run,
family-founded company.
His granddad and his father founded it.
And it's a software company.
So, I think India's--
Any small and medium business in India
will, you know, do all their invoicing,
all their inventory on Tally, right?
-So, I think--
-We all use Tally.
-Yeah.
It's just... it's become a household name.
And yeah, I think it's great to see
because I come from a family that's,
you know, where I've seen my father work
in a professional environment.
And then, you know,
you kind of get the exposure to see
someone on the other side, to see how,
you know, you can carry on family legacy.
And, you know,
build it into something
that's modern, that's current,
and also transcend different perspectives.
Yeah. So, I think-- He's an engineer.
We met in college,
University of Pennsylvania.
And we were friends,
friends for very long.
And then, yeah, we got together.
So, yeah.
So, he took this on.
What do you mean "got together"?
I think we decided that we could do...
we could be a lot more than friends
at another common friend's wedding.
-So I think that--
-Is it Tally in real life?
Did you get the parents involved?
I think the pen-pen connection worked,
and, yeah,
our parents know each other as well.
-So, that was a bonus.
-[Diipa] Cute.
But it was not a setup.
So, I like to say that loud and clear.
And, yeah, so, I think, one day,
we decided that we've been friends
for long enough.
-And, yeah.
-We met him in Amsterdam.
Yeah, I was just telling Nikhil.
Bhakti and I know each other
from Amsterdam,
and that's it, we'll stop there.
-Nothing happened.
-Nothing else happened.
Nothing else happened.
Now we have to know. What happened?
I made them too curious.
Honestly, nothing happened.
We just had a really good time.
-And we saw Diipa's beautiful home.
-On our boat.
-And we just had fun.
-Yeah.
Girls' time.
How did you get to Amsterdam?
Where did you begin?
Start with you,
because I know them, I know her,
but I'm going to get to know you.
I'm the new kid on the block.
Yes, Amsterdam.
Okay, let's just, backwards.
So, Punjabi family, born in Delhi.
And then, Mom and Dad
were both working very hard,
so, at one point,
they put us in boarding school in Ooty.
I went to this fantastic...
I was just talking on the way here as well
that boarding schools
have a pretty bad rep.
-Yeah.
-I had the best time.
And I feel like anybody
who comes to boarding school,
ask them, they've had the best time.
So, boarding school kid,
it was an international school.
I didn't speak English, actually,
when I got into the boarding school.
Hindi was my main language.
And then, now, my Hindi sucks.
English is the main language.
I never thought you were
originally from India.
Yeah, but this boarding school
is literally like Harry Potter.
You should look it up once.
It's called Hebron School.
-Okay.
-Do you know the main garden of Ooty?
You take one side road
and you enter into this insane world.
And I know maybe I'm, like,
romanticising it now.
But it, literally-- Our dining hall
had long tables like Harry Potter.
And we had prefects,
and it was this very British school.
My teachers were from New Zealand
and Korea and the US.
And it was this fantastic upbringing.
So, after that, my mom and dad
started doing business.
Like, every Punjabi has
a textile business.
So, we had a textile business,
where we were making ski outfits
for companies in Switzerland
and in Netherlands.
And so, when we finished school,
they were like, "Okay,
"if you want to study anywhere abroad,
it has to be the Netherlands."
And I'm like,
"Where on earth is the Netherlands?"
And then, did a little bit of research.
I'm like, "Oh, my God,
it looks like a sin city.
I don't know if I want to go there.
Do they speak English there?
Like, what's going on?"
Mom and Dad were like,
"No, we have a base there.
So, if you want to go, you can go there."
Did a little research, found an amazing
Bachelor's kind of university there.
And turned out
it was a really fun experience.
And as, kind of, you know,
closed off and Christian
and very rule-abiding
my boarding school was,
Amsterdam was the other opposite.
So, I always look at my life
in these three phases, almost.
Like, phase one of me
being a really, like,
Indian-Indian girl, went to KV.
Like, spoke Hindi was as, like,
you know, with the plaits
and oil in my hair type.
Like, typical.
Then phase two was basically in Hebron,
where this international world,
like, just exploded, opened up to me.
But still, narrow-minded in a way.
And then, phase three
was Amsterdam, where...
just every walk of life, every culture,
every open-minded philosophy.
And I met my husband there,
who you've met, of course.
And then, I moved to London
to do law for my master's.
But my husband and I,
at that point, boyfriend, got together.
And then,
while I was finishing my law school,
Instagram, this world of content creation
or whatever,
back then, it didn't even have a term.
It was blogging, I think.
And Instagram was just starting,
that that path kind of found me.
And then, I decided, very difficultly
in an Indian family, to stop law
and start "blogging".
-How long back was this?
-And my mom was like... ten years ago.
Eleven years ago,
and my mom was like, "Absolutely not.
What is blogging?
You're an academic student, straight As.
You're not going to get
into this Instagram thing."
And I was like, "Mom, trust me.
The media landscape is changing.
I can see something in the future
is going to happen here.
This is the right time, right place.
I need to be the first mover here.
This is going to be big."
And this was like, heydays of, like,
just beginning Instagram.
Instagram, yeah.
-It was literally ten years ago, 2015.
-Yeah.
And, indeed,
it was right time, right place.
And I became kind of the first desi
who was globally doing it.
Made some insane campaigns,
the face of Maybelline,
the face of Kerastase.
Was on Piccadilly Circus, Times Square.
Like, every big beauty partnership
happened.
And then, the pandemic happened.
And I think I realised
I want more from this journey.
By then, I'd done it for six years or so.
Or seven years,
this whole Instagram world.
As an academic, I was bored.
I'm like, "Okay, I'm done.
I've taken as many photos as one can
and done as many videos as one can.
I need the next challenge."
And always knew I was going
to get into business, always did.
Like, Punjabi family, Dad put it in early.
Like, "You have to get into business.
That's what we do."
But I think I had it in me, too.
Like, at age 12,
I started my first business.
I can't call it a business.
But my first little endeavour
was friendship bracelets,
where I would get my entire class on it,
and we would make friendship bracelets.
And I would kind of market it,
and they would make it.
And so, back then,
already, I knew this was
going to become something,
this business mind of mine, one day.
-And now, here we are.
-Nice.
-Yeah.
-What did you start first?
-What do you mean?
-In terms of business?
indē wild is my first business.
Well, I can consider
the personal brand a business
in the way of how big the team is,
and how we kind of lead it.
But I would say indē wild
is my first business.
-And how long has it been?
-Three and a half years.
-Nice.
-Yeah, it's been three and a half years.
What's the first product? Like, the first?
The first products were our two skin SKUs.
We had the AM and the PM Serum,
which is basically 12 serums in one.
And the PM is eight serums in one.
I call it, like, the T-shirt and jeans
of your skincare,
where you don't need
the 12-step skincare routine.
One product does it all.
And then, the third one we launched,
which is now the crazy, viral one...
-I did a little PR for you.
-Yeah.
...is the Champi Hair Oil,
which has become the household product.
And what percentage of your business
is India versus outside?
Yeah, so, that has been crazy.
So, when we launched
in the first nine months,
indē wild it became the first brand
to launch in the US, UK, and India.
Like, that had never been done before.
And was your content background
a big, like a big steroidal push,
-to taking it off?
-100%. 100%.
I always say that having
a community of 2.5 million
-was the trampoline jump.
-Yeah.
It gave the boost,
but it's not obviously everything.
Product matters, yeah.
And you also built your community,
I think, authentically.
-Yes. Yes.
-It took that time.
'Cause you were in the beauty space,
so I think that's another
fun buzzword, "community".
Community is everywhere now.
-And, yeah.
-I really hope my investors hear this.
They're like,
"Why do you do this podcasting?"
I'm like, "It really helps.
No one talks about shaving.
So, I need to be in the centre
of conversation, in some way."
Because you started
after the business started, right?
-Yeah, much later.
-Yeah.
So, they're like,
"Oh, this is like a hobby thing."
"Are you even serious about..."
I don't have the media budgets
of a Gillette or a Philips or whatever.
-Yeah, of course.
-So I need to be centre of conversation.
This is the lowest thing.
Like, unlike beauty.
-Absolutely.
-My business has zero conversation.
When was the last time
you spoke about your razor to anyone?
Unless it's an investment. No one, no,
men don't talk. Women talk.
Maybe you should shave
and then people will talk about it.
Me? I have trimmers and shavers.
So I need to do everything
in this real estate.
I shave my head and I trim my beard.
No, but I think the founder face,
the creator face,
has become such a common thing
in beauty now.
Like, even Charlotte Tilbury
was just a makeup artist.
And then, she literally became
the face of her brand.
And that changed the marketing completely.
You know, Rihanna, of course, we know.
Celebrity brands, obviously,
is the face of the brand.
But even in the US now,
brands exploding where, their founders,
after starting the brand,
become public people
and start posting content.
How could you, like--
How much of your public persona
has helped Zerodha?
Especially in an increasingly
competitive world, right?
Are you seeing, like,
a podcast does well?
You suddenly get like a ton of views
and then sign-ups go up or...
I don't know
if there's a direct correlation.
You never thought about it?
I've thought about it,
but have I been able to measure it? No.
I hope it goes up.
-What's your hypothesis?
-Isn't it doing really well already?
Yeah, podcast is very, like,
non-monetary in nature.
We don't have advertising
or sponsorship or any of that.
In fact, I take money
from people who are guests,
and we do a charity project
at the end of it.
So, it's the opposite
of a capitalistic venture.
The outcome,
we're very much going after
that we want to elicit is,
somebody goes and starts a business
in what we speak about.
So, today, for example,
beauty and skincare.
I hope when this is out,
some young kid or a few of them
pick up something that you said
and start a business.
So, today's about that.
If we can lay out a road-map
of what the opportunity is
in this industry that is growing
very fast.
And we will figure out how to give them
the tools they require to solve
for a bunch of things that you guys
have very successfully solved for.
Bhakti can help most of all.
She can just sell their product.
Yeah.
Right? So, we'll put her phone number
and email at the end of it,
so thousands of people
can reach out to her.
-Absolutely.
-Launch them.
Launch them. Please come, enlist.
But tell us about you next.
No, first of all, thank you
for having me here. And, you know...
So much to learn from all three of you
in very different ways.
Grew up between...
So, born in the US, my dad was in IT.
He was at TCS for many years, and then...
So, grew up in the US,
Pune, Bangalore, Trivandrum, Pune.
So, Pune is where I was
from 5th grade to 12th.
Very cookie-cutter approach to life.
I went to engineering school in Nagpur,
business school in IIM, Lucknow.
So, 2005-2011 education,
joined McKinsey as a consultant in 2011
in the Bombay office.
-'11 to '16, I was at McKinsey.
-Long working hours?
Yeah. It was the best first job, man.
It was the best first job.
-Is consulting dying?
-Oh, 100%.
"Dying" is a strong word,
but if you don't evolve...
What I did ten years back
is completely irrelevant today.
What can they evolve into?
I think consultants
were hired for two things.
And even today,
those two things remain true.
One is a bottom-up strategic understanding
of a complex problem
that any business has.
So, for Tira, for example,
you can say I need to know,
for example, what's an inventory
versus marketplace model.
What are the SKUs? What's the growth rate?
You'll have really sharp analysts,
and they'll probably have AI to help them.
But you don't need that anymore, right?
-You do.
-You think?
-I think so.
-AI doesn't solve for that?
I don't think AI can help you
frame problems yet.
A business needs to know
how to frame the problem
and evolve the framing
of the problem constantly.
You can't just let them free
for six months.
Give me a for-instance.
Let's say Diipa's brand.
Am I saying that right, Diipa?
Yeah, it's just because of "I-I-P-A"
name, numerology, my parents.
Okay.
Let's say Diipa's brand,
let's say indē wild,
has to launch a men's business in India.
Okay.
And she's like, "Hey, I think
I'm only serving half the market.
And I think there is a certain amount of
institutional capability that I can do
to expand into the other half."
For example, I'm just making this up.
"I need someone to help me
figure this out."
So, there's a market expansion.
Now they'll come back
with, let's say, one-week answer.
Usually, at McKinsey, it's like, oh,
one-week answer, a two-week answer,
where you put all the information together
and put a hypothesis.
At that point,
she has to start helping the team.
Or her team will have to start
helping the team, figuring out, "Okay,
we're going to double-click here
because this makes sense."
But what part of their answer
will be useful to her
-that she can't find herself online?
-And what can I not do in AI?
-Yeah.
-Yeah. Like, market research, I can do it.
For example, I don't know,
I have not been a consultant
for ten years.
-Really hard.
-You're putting him on the spot.
But, for example, I will-- At McKinsey,
we would immediately know the 20 times
this has happened in the world.
Immediately. We'll get five partners on
the phone from Germany, Amsterdam,
Brazil, Australia, whatever.
Play it out like you're enacting it.
Say, I'm Diipa, I call you up.
I want to launch a men's brand,
Shantanu calls who and asks what?
I will find the ten biggest
men's brands expansions,
like Dove For Men.
For example, I'll know the guy in Unilever
who would've done
the Dove to Dove Men expansion
and spoken to him about,
"How did it work in China?
How did it work in India?
What are the ten insights you found?
What were the consumers going through?
Then I'll come back to Diipa
or I'll come back you and say,
"Hey, here are the big five things."
What manufacturing
or supply chain or marketing...
-So, it's network then?
-...strengths--
So, the network is a bit.
So, that's the thing.
There is one part of it which is,
like, very bottom-up
information gathering and analysis.
The second part is a counsellor who is
just someone who is very senior,
who will help you think through things.
I have seen that happen a lot.
But generally, not a specialist
and a generalist, right?
'Cause he has never built
a skincare brand.
-Who?
-Whoever at McKinsey she's talking to.
No, they've not. Obviously,
never done it themselves,
but they're close enough
to many people to have...
It's like a venture capitalist
or an investor, right?
You have done enough and you're smart
enough to do pattern recognition.
But if somebody were--
Maybe I invested in a skincare brand,
but if someone were to ask me
what should I do,
I would be the last person
they should take--
But if you have invested in
15 skincare brands
across three fund cycles,
you'll probably have the right answer.
But then why can't I get this answer
from my board member
from Unilever Ventures?
-You know what I mean?
-Yeah.
That board member,
if she would contact her list of people,
they would have the same contacts,
they would have the same insight.
So, math to math,
a board member who's from Unilever,
would probably cost the same
as a McKinsey team for three months.
You mean how much
we give away in equity?
Intellectually, someone's giving you the--
How much does it cost?
I've never used a consultant.
But McKinsey doesn't give me money.
Unilever has given her money.
No, but, for example,
that's probably what it would cost.
Like, we think about the--
Equity returns you're creating
for that individual
would probably be the same.
Probably more. He's more invested.
-Couple of crores a month for a good team.
-Yeah?
Irrespective of my company size?
It depends. So, for example,
-a lot of it...
-How big is your company, Diipa?
-In?
-Sales?
So, we're gonna cross 100 crores in net.
And I need to talk in net,
because I think there's a lot of stuff
in the press
with GMVs and ARRs and everything else.
-What do you mean by "net"?
-Net sales after everything is taken out.
So, net of discounts, returns,
and cancellations.
It's what the accountant
will say is her revenue.
Net of what you pay
a distributor, for example.
-No.
-[Shantanu] Yes.
-Yeah, yeah, yes.
-Yes. It's the invoice value.
-Invoice value.
-[Bhakti] Invoice value.
Back to my story,
I was at McKinsey for five years.
-Started Bombay Shaving Company in 2016--
-Also, before I forget, another question.
What are multiples in a business
like this or that today?
-Is it 4x, 5x? Yeah.
-Valuation multiples?
So, this is a good part, right?
Four to five times revenue
if you're growing 40% year on year?
If you're growing 20%?
-Three to four.
-Really?
-No, I think it's...
-I've heard differently.
Yeah, it can be anywhere between...
It really depends on what category
you are in as well because...
So, in beauty, personal care?
There is a...
There is-- The moment of transition
is when you become profitable.
When you start going from
four times revenue, five times revenue,
to 40 times forward EBITDA.
-I've heard of cases...
-That's the transition.
...with, like, five to six times on ARR.
Five to six times on revenue
is very common as well right now.
But what's the growth rate?
You won't value...
Who gets valued at that?
How much is Emami valued at?
How much did Minimalist get valued at?
Hailey Bieber just... Hailey Bieber
just got her company valued at that.
Hailey Bieber was at four, though.
-She was at four and a half, five.
-No, babe.
Minimalists was a very unique case.
-She made 200 million.
-[Bhakti] Yeah.
-And then, she only got 800 now, right?
-And then, one billion.
No, her growth was valued at one billion.
The other one is going to be
in three years, I think.
Overall, got valued at one.
-[Diipa] Overall.
-Okay. Yeah.
So, but it is between 4x and 5x of...
-Revenue.
-Yeah.
And I would imagine India is a bit more
because the beauty industry is exploding.
Exploding, and it's also smaller, right?
When you're at smaller scale,
you can grow faster...
-[Diipa] Exactly.
-...and you will get a higher multiple.
And to your question, Minimalist,
don't quote me on this,
but I think seven or eight.
You're on a podcast.
You're going to get quoted for sure.
-Quote me on them, I think.
-No, but it's public information.
There were 480 crores top-line,
3,000 crores net value.
-Unilever really wanted that business.
-Yeah.
And there are...
I was reviewing their business
to invest, you know.
And I negotiated with them so hard.
At what stage?
-Like, a year before this deal.
-[Bhakti] Wow.
A year and a half before this deal.
So that was not a...
Like, it would not have been...
The venture capital is not super happy
with the outcome.
-No, it was a 40% markup from there.
-Yeah.
-Yeah. Which is still something. 40-50%.
-Of course. Of course.
50% in one year is great.
But I still couldn't digest the valuation
when---
I spent, I think, two, three days
with them on the phone,
but I couldn't make my...
make up my mind to...
See, there, at least my view outside in,
there is a lot of things at play, right?
Unilever is struggling to premiumise.
All of their brands, Dove, Ponds,
Fair & Lovely, everything is mass.
-But Minimalist is not premium.
-Very premium.
-Premium?
-Compared to their portfolio?
No, it's... Minimalist is masstige.
-Like it's... It's masstige.
-Masstige.
Compared to their portfolio, compared
to the average Unilever price point...
-Why? Lakmē?
-Lakmē is a very smart buy, right?
Okay, another good question for you guys.
Yeah, but if you're talking about
beauty per se,
this falls between the purview
of beauty and...
Yeah, it is kind of between
L'Oréal and Unilever,
so it was up for Unilever.
And new CEO wanting to get into this--
-I felt it was... It was one of those...
-What is premium?
What is mass-premium?
I think Bhakti is a good one
to answer that.
I think anything over 1,000 rupees is...
1,000 to 1,500 is premium.
-Anything over 2,300...
-Luxury?
2,300 to 2,500 is prestige/luxury.
And everything below?
Everything below is mass.
-Which is so crazy because...
-Between mass and masstige.
-Yeah.
-So, you can take
anything between 700-1,000 as masstige
and varies about plus-minus 100 rupees on
different categories,
and then anything below that is mass.
So, we're still playing
very, very value...
-Heavily, yeah.
-Heavily in value.
And we're talking skincare plus cosmetics.
So, how we...
Just plainly
how we would categorise beauty
is just four key main categories.
Skincare, fragrance, hair-care,
and makeup.
-Colour cosmetics.
-Okay.
So, these are four key beauty categories,
and then everything else is personal care.
So, soap, you will classify
as personal care,
but shower gel and shower oil,
again, you will classify as...
You'll put it in beauty.
And skincare is the largest?
No, actually, colour cosmetics
is always the largest.
-Colour is largest.
-Always.
But, you know,
they're going kind of neck and neck.
-It's going neck and neck.
-Because the lines are also blurring.
I think, in the past,
colour has always been the biggest.
Always dominated. Yeah.
Because it's the Estées
and L'Oréals of the world.
-Exactly.
-The lipsticks, the mascaras.
It's always been the biggest.
-Skincare, I think, has been a recent...
-Dark horse. Yeah.
Recent one where, I think...
I think maybe Glossier might have
started that trend, in a way,
of, like, really skinifying.
Just to qualify, when I think skincare,
I'm thinking moisturiser, sunscreen.
-Correct.
-We're talking about that, right?
This is a very... so, I'm very curious.
So, for example, for men,
these numbers are very different
for the categories I operate in.
No, I think we'll stick to women first
because I'm guessing
majority of the market is that.
Right? Like, 80%?
-Yes, but changing.
-But changing. But changing.
-Yeah.
-[Bhakti] Yeah.
So, I think skincare is maybe... the past
seven, six, seven years
really took a, like, upward trend.
I think, yeah, the last 7-10 years
has been very good on skincare.
And I think the way we define beauty
has also really changed the concept
of, you know, adoption of skincare, right?
Because I think beauty...
Beauty has gone through this journey
where it was all about
looking good, external validation.
You know, we've all seen the ads,
where you put on a red lipstick
or you put on Fair & Lovely,
and then you go get the next guy,
get the best guy, get the best job,
you win a reality TV show,
and then that was all about
really dominating makeup, right?
Because it was about enhancing
or making yourself look better.
So, it was not really...
It was about getting external validation
and also telling yourself that,
"I need to have all of this
to become better."
Then it went on, like,
I think, the space that...
When skincare really took off
was all about, you know,
taking care of your skin,
making sure that, you know,
you want to take care of yourself.
And we're kind of there.
But now, we've moved
into the self-expression zone.
So, beauty is all about self-expression
and whatever that means to you.
-Right?
-That comes in the makeup.
That is where the journey
from makeup, you know,
makeup dominating beauty when...
Whenever, you know,
even when we do work with ad agencies,
a lot of them,
they only look at beauty as makeup.
Like, that's how it went hand in hand.
And you kind of started, you know,
you ignore all the other categories.
If you look at the services industry,
on the other hand, it's all about hair.
So, skin and makeup services are not huge.
-70%.
-Wait, that comes under this?
So, services is also beauty, right?
Like hair services.
-A salon...
-[Bhakti] Like a salon.
70% is all about hair. But when you're...
Well, I wouldn't consider salon
under the beauty pyramid, would you?
Yeah. I mean, it's still--
you're still selling...
you're still selling product there, right?
Like a Kerastase.
You're talking about
the products sold at a salon.
-[Diipa] Not the treatment.
-No, not the treatments.
But it's still consumption, no?
But it's still consumption
on how people think differently.
Is that a big part of consumption? Salons?
-Salons is huge.
-[Diipa] Used to be. Used to be, I think.
In India, particularly,
all professional haircare brands
have started in salons.
If you look at Kerastase,
they do majority of their business
still through salons because...
And what does it take to crack a salon?
Like, if I am a new brand like Kerastase?
So, India is very fragmented
even on the salon space.
So, you will have, like,
eight to ten big brands
that are dominating
different markets, right?
Like the North or the West or the South,
and you have to actually
be able to strike a deal.
For example, and it's...
A Kerastase, if they go into any salon,
they don't allow
any other brand to be there.
Is it like in a pharmacy
where you pay rent to get shelf space?
It's a lot more than that.
You have to give them products
that you can use on a service.
So, you basically craft
an entire treatment menu
with your product,
and then that's how you
actually sell your product.
Because it's all about
the after-sales service
and after-sales purchase, right?
So, if I like a product,
if I go to my hair stylist who I trust,
because, again, beauty is all about trust
and, you know, believing in someone
who you believe is an expert.
So, when I go to them,
and, you know, my hair stylist says,
"Your hair is falling,
why don't you use this serum,
and let me let me use it
after I shampoo your hair before blow dry.
This is how you use it.
And, oh, you know,
the weather is really dry outside.
So, maybe you should try
this shampoo that's moisturising
and that will make your hair,
you know, hold well in this weather."
And then, at the end of it,
he's used all of that on me.
And then he'll be like,
"Listen, do you want to buy it?"
And I'm like, "Oh, I really like my hair."
'Cause, again,
then it goes back to validation.
Does a salon optimise
for best quality product
or the highest kickback or margins?
Definitely.
I think it's a mix of both, right?
Because you also want people
to keep coming back to you.
So, it's the--
But if it's like you said,
a brand just takes over
and says no other brand,
then I guess you're only serving
the client one brand.
And that's why, now,
a lot of salons are also saying,
"No, we don't mind
having three or four brands
because they cater
to all different kinds of products.
Like curly hair.
It's huge,
but we never speak about curly hair.
Like, it's a whole segment in itself,
booming segment in itself.
And it's just been started
getting addressed now.
So, that pattern is breaking out.
And I think that's great.
Like, I've discovered a lot of brands,
even international brands, through salons,
because they come in
through a distributor.
So, you can work with the distributor
who'll have all the best
salon connections.
Go to them saying,
"Listen, I want to distribute my brand."
They'll probably connect you to...
If it's a small one, to ten salons,
if it's, you know,
your brand is growing bigger,
then to a chain of salons.
So, I think my experience
has been a little bit different.
Obviously, indē wild's hair products
are our best-selling.
We're number one on Nykaa,
number one on Tira,
and we're beating out salon brands
like Kerastase, like Olaplex, like others,
I don't know the names of all of them,
that really are salon-first brands.
And I think there is a change,
and I'd say, specifically,
double-clicking into Gen Z,
where they want that
salon experience at home.
They want it fast, they want it quick,
they want to do it themselves,
but they want the level of that expertise
and ingredients and salon-like feeling,
but to be able to do it themselves.
And so, when you notice,
even if you look at the new shampoos
that are coming out,
everything is so intelligent now.
Everything has to be bond repair
and peptides and proteins,
and ingredients-led
that the customer feels like,
"Why would I go to a salon and spend 4,000
on getting the hair done first,
then get fed these thingies,
when I can get it quickly from Tira
by the next morning?
And it claims to have all the same things,
plus the influencer
who's talking to me about it
has said you get the same effects,
I can see the before and afters."
I feel like consumers...
Maybe the salon is still very important
for, maybe, the millennials,
and perhaps our aunties
and our moms and stuff.
Yeah, the older generation, absolutely.
But Gen Z is a lot more like,
"I need it now."
-Instant gratification.
-Yeah, exactly.
They want it now, they want it all.
I also think salons are good for sampling.
So, the thing that makes brands work
in salons,
and I think L'Oréal
is a fantastic example of this,
is they're able to get a SKU assortment,
which is larger.
So, they'll do like 500mls and one litres
and shaving foams, they'll do, like,
a two-kilo pack, stuff like that.
VI-JOHN will do a good job with that.
The customer
and the consumer are different.
So, the customer is the stylist.
The consumer is the person
he's doing it on.
So, the consumer probably gets it done
the first time
and then will come to a Tira
and say, "Okay..."
-As a second purchase.
-Exactly.
-Go on YouTube and say "how to do this".
-Yeah.
"How much is it on Tira?"
And then they do it themselves.
Do they look for the same brand
when they're on Tira?
Often-times. The second thing that
I think really good salon-first brands do
is they invest a lot in training.
-Training.
-[Bhakti] Yes, training.
They do a lot of, like, these...
they'll have massive teachers,
they'll go into these academies.
They'll call 50 stylists in one go,
keep them for a week,
like, take them through it.
So, now, there's a product
which is assorted for a salon,
then there is a stylist
who's trained to use that product
to the optimum performance.
Then the consumer leaves the salon saying,
"Hey, that was fucking amazing."
-Exactly.
-"Now, I want to come and see
how much it is for it."
And then, the repeat goes on
to, you know, any platform,
they go on to a Tira and they're like,
"Okay, now, we keep buying it."
And again, going back
to what Diipa said, right?
I think the Gen Zs are
a lot more comfortable
figuring it out for themselves.
I think the millennials
and, you know, all the...
everyone older than that
is very used to getting it done.
So, they feel
a lot more comfortable saying,
"Okay, my stylist has said this,
so, I'll get it." You know?
"Now, I feel comfortable."
And I think who we look
as experts has changed.
Exactly.
Like, I think millennials look at experts
as the trichologists,
dermatologists, like, salon...
-Yes.
-...hairdressers.
And the Gen Z is looking at influencers...
-KOLs.
-...you know, KOLs as their experts.
-What is KOL?
-Key Opinion Leaders.
Would you want your brand
to be in salons at some point?
Have you thought about, like,
a salon range?
I think, I mean,
indē wild is such a, like,
wellness, Ayurvedic,
like, I can see that happen,
especially I think
our Champi Hair Oil, like, you know,
reinventing the champi
in this really cool hair treatment way.
I can see it, but I think, at this point,
we're good with our online
and, like, our retailers,
and I think next step, perhaps,
could be more spa-led first, perhaps,
and then the phase after that
could be salon.
-Diipa has really nice hair.
-Thank you.
You need to get my oil.
I need to send it to you.
I will send you my oil.
-Do you oil every day?
-No. That would be crazy.
[laughter]
I oil, usually, once a week.
We call it Sunday champi.
That's kind of the thing
we've made with our brand,
where, every Sunday,
our community champis with us.
Girls go to Pilates
with oil in their hair.
Girls go to groceries
I've worked out with her
Champi Hair Oil on a Sunday.
-And you keep it on all day?
-No.
You keep it on for an hour, two hours,
and then you wash it out.
It's almost, honestly,
it has become a movement of sorts
with the Gen Z because this thing,
the champi, the hair oiling,
was a PTSD to all of us growing up.
-Yes.
-I mean, I hated it.
Like, you would have
to go to school with it.
-It would stink. It would be heavy.
-Plait your hair, yeah.
You just didn't like
the experience of oiling your hair.
And especially if you go abroad with it,
you would be made fun of.
So, Indians abroad, Indians in India,
all of us together have this
really bad experience of hair oiling.
And what indē wild did
is we took that very same experience,
turned it on its head, and made it cool.
And now, there's this clean girl aesthetic
where it's all about slick back
and up-dos.
-Do it with the Champi Oil.
-That's--
Yeah. And so, it's become like...
Instead of using a wax or a gel,
use this oil
that is really good for your hair
while you do a cool style with it.
And then, really treat your hair
every Sunday,
and the before and afters
speak for themselves.
We were ideating a jewellery brand
recently with lab-grown jewellery,
lab-grown diamonds,
and two people we were consulting,
Kishore and Santosh Biyani.
They were talking about
how the youth is buying,
not a new product altogether,
-but they're buying re-imagined old.
-[Shantanu] Yeah.
Is that something
that's working for Champi,
and do you agree with that analysis?
I think, 100%, for the brand, as a whole.
indē wild, I think,
really resonates with the new India
because we just take
age-old Nani's remedies,
scientifically back it,
make it super cool,
and bring it out again.
And I think it's definitely that
nostalgic element that our products give
while it being something really cool
to show off to your friends.
Like, our Dewy Lip Treatments,
they're our lip balms, Bhakti loves them.
-The Rose.
-Yeah, the Rose.
They basically have ghee in it.
Could you ever imagine
a lip balm with ghee in it?
And it is the talk of the town.
Like, you go to Soho House,
every girl has it on her table.
They have it locked to their bags.
They have it locked to their jeans.
-Really?
-And it's ghee in a lip balm.
But it's so funny
because when I was growing up,
my mom would tell me, "Eat a date,"
and she would put ghee inside it.
And she's like,
"Eat it, and whatever's left,
just put it on your lips."
And I've grown up, literally, with that.
Like, you know, put ghee on your lips
so they don't chap.
-Yeah, exactly.
-Can we establish market size?
You said skincare,
makeup, hair, and fragrance.
How big is this market in India now?
-You said premium is 1,000 bucks.
-[Bhakti] Yes.
Luxe and prestige is 2,300 bucks.
Mass is below that.
-Women are majority of the market.
-[Shantanu] Yeah.
How big is the market and who is buying?
Overall. In India.
I think beauty personal care,
at this point,
In 2024, was 21 billion,
which is so funny
because our first investor deck
had something
from McKinsey and Bain saying,
"In 2025, the Indian beauty market
would be 20 billion."
-We've already beaten it.
-Yeah.
So, it's going faster
than anybody expected.
If you double-click
on beauty itself, I think...
-40 to 45% of the market.
-Yeah.
When you say beauty, you mean
skincare, makeup, hair, and fragrance?
Correct. Yeah.
Do Indians still buy
the Western narrative?
-That's such a good question.
-Yes.
[Diipa and Bhakti] Yes and no.
-Yeah. Yes and no.
-Explain.
You start.
I think that...
there was a time when a lot of the...
Particularly when MAC entered, right?
I think they came,
they had first-mover advantage,
entered the market,
and really took it by storm.
There was no Indian brand,
there was no global brand
other than Maybelline.
And Lakmē, as we all know,
has changed the game in the mass segment.
But MAC came in and kind of--
We were all--
I think the millennial generation
was the first one that started, you know,
travelling and going out
and getting a little bit of the taste
of what beauty was
in the Western countries.
And I think that when that
MAC phenomena began,
we were all, you know,
"Oh, wow, this is made in Italy,
it's made in France,
it's come from the UK,
it's come from the US."
There was that whole enigma
to, kind of, you know,
want and just be that, right?
So, it was... whether it was in looks,
whether it was in how we believed
what we wanted to be,
just dressing,
everything was kind of aping the West.
Now, as brands started really coming in
and the consumer mindset started moving,
one, consumers believed
that when brands are coming
from a country like France
or they're coming
from a country like Italy,
where they're known to have
really, really good quality ingredients,
they want product that is very, very good.
But I think when it comes to a brand
and storytelling
and who they identify with,
that identification
has changed very beautifully.
They realised that they were not
seeing people who represent them.
So, I think when it comes to
what they expect
from a quality perspective, yes,
there is a want to emulate the West,
in product standard, in quality,
in transparency,
in how they talk about claims
in, you know...
I think Europe has the highest standards
when it comes to safety
and ingredients and transparency.
And the consumers today, in India,
demand exactly that.
Do they want to see
the same kind of brand storytelling,
the same kind of, you know...
They want to see
who they are on a global brand as well.
So, I think that when you...
Global brands are alienating...
you know, alienating Indian consumers
when they don't see someone
who looks like them in India.
So, that's, I think,
any time a brand is coming in,
I always tell them this, that,
"Make sure... you may not get a face,
but you make sure
that you are being able to see--
Your brand has something
that connects to the Indian consumer.
There's something
that speaks to their unique journey.
That's something that's dear to them
and their values."
So I think that...
that is something that has changed.
And what's not changed,
I think, is the standards.
But, traditionally,
the opposite worked, right?
-Yes.
-I think, in India, like, growing up here,
I think we had a colonial hangover.
-I think everything was...
-Don't we still?
I would argue, less.
Or perhaps, for many people,
also not, because I think...
And specifically in the premium
and prestige categories?
What about mass categories?
I'll get to that in a second.
But I think the Eurocentric ideals
of beauty,
the colonial hangover,
I think we, like... Like you said,
anything that came from the West
was just way better, way superior.
India could never.
Because, look, look at our backyard.
Look at how dirty everything is.
But I think in... as time went by,
and in recent years, there's this pride.
There's this nationalistic Indian pride
that I have seen in myself.
I think when I first went abroad,
I myself would be like,
"Oh, yeah, I've studied--
I have cousins from America
or, like, I've studied."
And now,
so proudly do I say I'm from India.
And I think it's been a conglomeration
of so many different--
But still marry a white guy
and live in Netherlands.
But love, I can't choose, right?
I happened to fall in love
with a white guy.
Kill me for that.
-You ran straight into that.
-I know.
You know what happened?
Actually, when I got married,
and I posted these
beautiful wedding photos,
some Indian men literally were like,
"Didn't we have enough men in India?"
I'm like, "Guys, you don't choose
who you fall in love with."
But, no, back to this story.
So, I think now, you know,
with everything that India is doing,
like the Global South is where it's at.
India is the epicentre
of beauty in our industry,
but also in so many other things.
It's where it's going to be.
But we're still buying more Estée Lauder.
We're not.
But that's what we're arguing. We're not.
-Majority.
-I feel like...
I think we'll get to that.
-L'Oréal and Estée Lauder.
-I think there's a shift.
There's a significant shift
in home-grown brands dominating.
-Exactly.
-Minimalist being a big one, right?
And something to be said about timing.
Can you give a percentage to this?
Say, five years ago,
how much market share
did L'Oréal and Estée Lauder have?
And how much do they have today?
The belly of the market, Nikhil,
is still very mass, right?
-So, mass and masstige.
-Exactly.
So, while a L'Oréal Paris
and a Maybelline play in that segment,
it is still a Lakmē
and a Maybelline that dominate.
So, Lakmē is still sitting on the top
of the colour cosmetics charts.
-Exactly.
-There's Lakmē, Maybelline, and MAC.
But do you think people look at Minimalist
as a nationalistic Indian brand,
or it seemed foreign to begin with?
-And they never spoke about their story.
-It's a good question.
They didn't do that many interviews.
Nobody associated a name with the founder.
[Shantanu] Post exit--
I think, all of that aside,
I think what Minimalist did really well,
and, of course,
they're part of the Unilever portfolio,
so I love them as well.
But I think their products,
they really focused on good quality.
They were, I think,
one of the first brands who said...
Like, even if you go to their labs
or their manufacturing units,
it's high-quality ingredients,
high-quality products.
That, I think, was the first time
that consumers were like,
"Okay, we are being shared transparency."
They really led the kind of growth
in India on ingredient-led
and really educating the customer.
Give me a tip here. I'm starting a brand.
I'm 20 years old or 25 years old.
I have great quality,
but how do I tell people
I have great quality?
-Or how do I show them?
-How quickly do you want to scale?
-How much time do you have?
-As quickly as I can.
How much money do you have?
Say, two crore rupees.
They started with that much, no?
Minimalist?
-Two crores, three crores?
-They were very capital-efficient.
-Yeah.
-They didn't raise a lot.
They had their own manufacturing unit.
That was a big up.
But it doesn't cost a lot
to put the manufacture--
It wasn't very capex-intensive.
It was a small lab--
See, a lot of people
can hack good quality.
-The question is, how is the story told?
-How do you go to market?
Of course, good quality
is part one of the equation.
Then you need phenomenal, like, marketing.
Of course, with me,
it was great that we had
that trampoline jump to begin with.
It is the content creator economy.
It is content, content--
Like, I tell my team this all the time.
"We're a product company
and a media company in one."
If we can do our content--
That seems to be
what everybody tells me today.
-Not just in your industry.
-Yeah.
-You have to.
-Including him.
He's a media company
as much as he's a product company.
No, we're not a media company,
but we do a lot of...
distribution of content
through channels that we own.
As opposed to buying media
of off inventory.
-Yeah, yeah.
-As is Tira now?
I think Tira is--
We're also focusing highly on--
I think content is one end,
but community is on the other.
Right? And I think that you have to--
You can be a great content creator,
but if you don't have a community
that is authentic,
that has been built on a shared value,
you're not really
going to be able to maximise it.
So I think that what I would start with
is a hero product.
You need to have one solid product,
and you need to be able to solve
a real problem.
I think that's one thing.
So, even if it's good quality,
I think that's one.
-And then you can go and--
-Give me an example, hero product?
My favourite example actually
is Mamaearth on this.
Because their hero products changed,
but they were real...
-Onion something.
-No.
Do you guys remember what
Mamaearth's first big hero product was
when they were doing five crores a month
at a total level?
Take a wild guess. I love this--
I know the onion hair shampoo.
Onion one was, like,
maybe when they were doing 10-12 crores.
-Baby something?
-Yeah, something for kids.
-Baby, yeah?
-No, but what?
Diapers?
They were best mosquito repellent
for kids.
-[Diipa] Oh, my God.
-Wow.
It was an outstanding product.
Because it smelled good and...
I literally ordered it
on Blinkit yesterday.
-For kids?
-The same mosquito repellent, Mamaearth.
So Mamaearth was doing
four or five crores a month.
And they were doing
three crores of mosquito repellent.
-Good problem to solve.
-It was All Out and Goodknight.
And then they went from that to the onion.
And then, of course, they had--
But I think also Mamaearth
was the first wave.
But I think what Bhakti is saying about
community right now--
Giving an example of her, right?
Champi Hair Oil.
She has that one product, which...
And a lot of the story
really works on that.
So, she picked that product.
She had a story which was nostalgia.
-But it's the community that made it.
-Exactly.
So, I think, like, in today's day and age,
you can copy product, right?
You can copy branding, marketing.
You can copy that.
You cannot copy a community.
It would take you so long to build
the community at a level that we've built.
-How do I build it?
-How is it built?
-How do you build?
I'm 25, I'm starting.
I want all the questions that I will need
answered to start tomorrow.
You start small.
My first community event had 14 people.
-Is it by hosting event?
-It is by hosting events.
Is it more offline than online?
But what if this founder does not
want to be the face, right?
I think there are people who may not
want to be the face of their--
We spoke about Minimalist.
-You can still build the community.
-Yeah, exactly.
But I think finding the shared values.
So, finding other creators
who would have the same shared values
as you or your brand
and then really reaching out
to their communities.
I think that's another way,
and a quicker way,
because there are people who will believe
in the exact same thing.
So, if you take something
as simple as acne,
you're solving for acne.
You reach out to creators
who've spoken about body image,
you reach out to creators who've spoken
about changes that they've gone through.
You know, who talk about their journey.
Or even experts, right,
who know how to solve this issue.
And then, reach out to their communities
versus putting yourself out there as well.
-That's--
-And offline helps.
-But a lot can be done online as well.
-I think online is huge.
-Okay, I'm starting with two crore rupees.
-Yeah.
-I'm trying to build a community.
Where are you playing first?
That's the first question.
-On a-- I have some questions on market.
-Yeah, channel.
-So, for me, like, I always--
-D2C, I guess, no?
Yeah.
I think GTM will be--
D2C will be interested.
For example, the market is, by the way,
haircare is seven to eight billion,
skin is six billion.
But you're talking about also--
Haircare as personal care.
-You're talking personal.
-So, now, this is...
-We play in the other--
-[Nikhil] Haircare is seven billion?
-Skincare is...
-Haircare is seven to eight billion.
-Of which majority is oil, by the way.
-You're confusing us.
You're talking about haircare
or personal care haircare?
You said BPC, right?
Beauty and personal care.
-Yeah.
-Or are you saying only beauty?
No, I want to know the break-up
of skincare, makeup, hair, fragrance.
You said skincare, right?
So, hair is seven to eight billion,
of which majority is oil, by the way.
The rest is shampoo, conditioner.
-Parachute.
-Parachute and Vatika.
-Champi is coming for you.
-Champi, all of that.
If you are looking
at the skincare, fragrance...
-How big is skincare?
-Six to seven billion.
Skincare will be about 30%.
Okay, how big is makeup? Colour cosmetics.
-Three billion.
-Makeup is also similar, 30%.
-Three billion?
-[Bhakti] Yeah. You can take,
actually, skincare as about 20%,
makeup as about 25-30%.
Fragrance is actually
significantly high, 30%.
-Particularly in the prestige section.
-But of what? Of the total market?
I'm talking about the beauty market only,
which is 40-45%.
I think there's a little bit
of confusion here.
She keeps talking about beauty.
You talk about beauty and personal care.
He talks about BPC, exactly.
So, at a personal care level,
hair is seven to eight billion
which includes Vatika,
Dabur Amla, all of that.
And Champi from indē wild...
-Makeup is three?
-Skincare is six billion,
which includes, by the way, Dove, Ponds...
-Everything.
-Dettol.
All the stuff that you were talking about.
Moisturisers--
-Glow & Lovely, everything.
-[Nikhil] Okay.
Then beauty is three billion, of which...
-I think the--
-What is beauty?
Beauty would be colour cosmetics.
Now, there will be some...
Now, I don't know where...
Minimalist will either sit in
-skincare or beauty. I think...
-Will lie in beauty.
-Because it's skincare.
-It's three billion.
-And fragrances is three billion.
-Okay.
So, beauty is growing faster
than personal care
which is everything FMCG
other than these four categories.
And, as I said, even in haircare,
there's a difference.
So, there's certain--
And this is a forever...
There is no right answer
to how you segregate this, right?
Every report has a different answer.
-There's a few products that are grey.
-Exactly.
Like, you know, the Glow & Lovely,
we consider it BPC.
We wouldn't consider them in beauty, pure,
but, technically, they're a moisturiser.
You know what I mean?
So, there's a few, I guess,
those conglomerate brands,
and the ones who have
really been, like, legacy brands
but mass, we consider them part of BPC.
The skincare--
Like a Minimalist wouldn't be BPC.
-That would be beauty.
-Okay, let me rephrase my question.
Tell me which category
is growing the fastest?
-Skincare. Yes.
-Fragrance?
-I think fragrance is growing really fast.
I think fragrance is gonna grow
really fast.
Fragrance is growing really fast.
It's crazy.
And fast, you mean, like, 15%?
-No, I think.
-No, skincare between--
So, they're all growing between 10-13%
because beauty is growing at a 10-11%--
If you were to start today,
start in a place where there is a lot...
One, there's growth rate.
The second is disruption.
-Yeah.
-I agree with her.
I think fragrance
is seeing insane disruption.
-100%.
-[Nikhil] Explain.
Because, why is, if you look at
the Indian fragrance market right now,
there's one of two things.
You have the really expensive
Chanel, Tom Fords,
blah, blah, blah, above 10,000.
15,000, but original.
Then you have dupes, which I don't know
the brand names fully,
but they literally sell dupes of, say,
the best-selling Gio, Acqua di Parmas,
blah, blah, blah, blah.
-599, 699, 799.
-I know this brand.
-Bella Vita. We do it.
-Bella Vita.
-We do it. A lot of people do it.
-And that's really mass.
This entire segment, basically,
between 1,000 to 10,000,
-for the grabs. Like, it's empty.
-Yeah.
Also, there's a lot happening
with fragrances.
There's something called
perfume wardrobing that's happening.
-Yeah, layering.
-Explain.
So, earlier-- So, one is layering.
Second is perfume wardrobing.
So, when I grew up...
-Different occasions.
-[Bhakti] Different moods.
My dad and mom or I had
like one or two fragrances...
-Yeah.
-...perfumes, at any given time.
Today, a 25-year-old Bombay Shaving
Company employee has...
Is buying three new fragrances a month.
So, now you're buying
10ml, 15ml, 20ml SKUs,
packs of four, packs of six,
packs of eight.
It's selling like soan papdi in Reliance.
Literally, it's kind of kept
stacked one on...
So, people are putting three-four things
on at the same time?
-No, no. That is layering.
-That's one trend. That's layering,
where you, like, layer different
to make a whole new fragrance
that's unique to you.
-[Nikhil] Do you do that?
-Do I do that?
-A little bit. Yeah, a little bit.
-[Nikhil] Do you do that?
Like, you pick your favourite,
like, Jo Malone.
You pick your favourite, like,
Tom Ford, and mix it.
And then it's, like, your fragrance.
-And it's also different on you 'cause--
-That's what Shah Rukh Khan said, no?
He puts-- Sorry I interrupted you.
No, I said it's different on you,
'cause everyone has a different smell
that they have, a particular one.
Yeah. But what he's talking about
is fragrance wardrobing
where, now, also for every mood-- Oh, wow.
For every mood, like, date night,
I want this fragrance.
Work-me wants this fragrance.
Like, evening,
chilling with my girlfriends,
I want this fragrance.
-So, you have, like, a different...
-Also, on the go, right?
-You're carrying it in your bag.
-On the go, yeah.
On the go, refillables.
I also think, in fragrance,
one more thing that's really...
exploding is the...
like, the cleanness of ingredients.
Because I think, for so long,
beauty, in general,
people are becoming
more conscious of ingredients
and how clean they are.
But, in fragrance,
specifically, under the name,
parfum or fragrance in your INCI list.
INCI list is the...
How do I explain INCI list?
-The percentage of all your---
-Yeah, INCI list is, like, you know,
the thing that you have to write
on your label.
-Regulatory.
-They're all the regulatory ingredients.
So, with perfume, you can literally just
say, parfum and get away with it.
But what people have found out
is that there's a lot
of endocrine-disrupting ingredients,
like, phthalates, and this-that,
within perfumes, that get in,
that people have been selling for so long,
and a lot of the infertility rates,
and all of that stuff is increasing
because of these phthalates,
that people want clean ingredients.
So, "clean fragrance", another huge trend.
Thank you.
So, in India, I think...
By clean fragrance, you mean,
like, vanilla, cherries, something?
-No, that's a...
-No.
-"Clean" means what?
-[Shantanu] Chemical.
Chemicals like phthalates--
-I think you'll need a whole day with us.
-Vanilla, cherries.
Nikhil, vanilla and cherries is gourmand.
-Yeah, gourmand.
-That's, like, you eat that.
-That's a microtrend.
-[Nikhil] Okay.
Clean, you mean, like,
it won't harm me, right?
-Ingredient.
-Yeah.
Just the purity of the ingredients,
the percentage of the ingredients--
The transparency.
Give me an example of a perfume brand
which does very clean.
In India, I don't know.
In the West, there is... Josie Maran.
It's this brand, like, a body care brand
that now have done this
really strong movement on their...
No alcohol as a base,
which is what majority of fragrances have.
So, they've reduced the alcohol,
because it's, like,
drying for your skin and hair.
And their entire fragrance
is 100% natural,
as in, essential oil fragrances.
-And do they last as long?
-It doesn't.
-It doesn't last as long.
-India is a hot country.
It wears off.
The issue with Indian longevity
of fragrances
is that the Western climate
is different from the Indian climate.
-It is.
-So, we struggle.
For Indian consumers,
their number one concern is...
-So that won't work in India.
-...long-lasting.
It will, you need a stronger fragrance.
That's why we like fragrances
that have a lot more scent, right?
Like, the concentration of...
-[Diipa] The eau de parfum.
-Exactly.
It has to be significantly higher.
They like strong-smelling perfumes
versus--
But even this-- The gourmand fragrances
is a two-year-old trend.
-So, you'll see vanilla, croissant--
-And that's working?
-Yeah. Pistachio.
-Today, Fraganote got funded.
Sol de Janeiro is the biggest brand
in beauty right now,
-it's all gourmand fragrances.
-All.
Every single one of them is you
just smell it and you want to eat it.
-Eat it.
-I actually use perfumes like that.
-Like, I have coriander and...
-Coriander is a good one.
-Good note.
-And that's another one.
Like, now, everything in beauty
is all about food.
If you see, like, that's such
a big thing that's happening.
It's like if you can eat it,
you can put it on your face as well.
But that's a big trend.
Whether it's on content,
whether it's on colour,
whether it's on marketing, storytelling.
It's all about, like, you know--
Cherry was the big trend.
If you think of it, psychologically,
food, it's such a nice place
in your brain.
Exactly. And then, it triggers that.
Doughnuts or, like, our lip balm.
Like, one of our lip balm flavours
is glazed jalebi.
And it does insanely well.
It's because you get this happy emotion
subconsciously with jalebi.
And you're like, "Oh, I'm gonna
put this in my lip balm."
-And lip is like you're tasting it.
-Yeah.
-Exactly.
-Also, it's nostalgic, right?
-Yeah.
-So, Mango Bite, for example,
is now like a fragrance that people
are really looking for.
-Keyword searches for Mango Bite--
-You make that?
-No, we don't make it.
-You make Mango Bite fragrance?
-We don't yet. We will.
-There's a pistachio.
Pistachio has done well.
Kayali has these fragrances.
Kayali, it's by Mona Kattan.
It's a Dubai-based brand.
And she has done all, like,
she has really caught
onto the gourmand trend.
-And...
-Pistachio, I saw someone else--
-Pistachio gelato.
-Matcha.
-Everyone's doing matcha now.
-That smells bad.
-No.
-But they make it smell good.
-They can make it smell good.
-[Diipa] They can make it smell good.
-Good and bad is so subjective.
-Mochi.
Mochi. But, yeah,
fragrance is going to-- I think it--
Who is going to make
the first laddu fragrance?
Yeah, besan ka laddu. Like a nostalgia--
Okay, I'm going to summarise
a bit of what you said.
You said the category,
overall, is about 21 billion.
"Skincare, six. makeup, three.
Hair, seven. Fragrance, three.
Fastest-growing is skincare
and fragrance."
Yeah.
"Making deals with salons when you're
starting a brand might be a good idea.
Old products--"
-For haircare.
Yeah, that's--
And professional haircare, right?
Like, if you're looking to work with...
with professional-grade products.
So you need to be able to call your brand
a professional brand to be...
actually be able to work with them.
"Old products made cooler,
nostalgia sells."
You said Western, better, still sells,
but the trend is shifting.
"Shifting faster in premium and prestige
and slower in mass.
Mass is below 1,000, premium is 1,000,
prestige is 2,300."
-Yeah?
-But I want to ask you a little bit.
Sorry. Complete your thought.
"All product companies
are media companies.
You need to run a media company
if you want to sell a product."
-And community.
-Community.
You said community,
but we didn't finish the thought on...
You hinted at offline
might be better than online.
-Or you need to have offline.
-No, I don't think so.
-And then we moved on to influencers.
-We can go back to community.
So, I think community...
Again, what Bhakti said,
it's a buzzword today.
Everybody's like, "Community,
community, community."
But I think I can only speak for us.
But at indē wild, everything we do
starts and ends with community.
And I mean in every aspect.
Like, before we launched the brand,
we had surveys
that were written by 16,000
of my followers
that really set everything.
I had 13 focus groups
before the brand even existed.
Asking them, "What do you care about?
What is your skincare concerns?
What is it not in the market?"
You know, really figuring it out.
Even in our bio till today, it says,
"Co-created by you."
So that is pre-brand launch.
Once the brand launched,
you know, we really interact--
Like, even the way
our customer service is done,
it's not like a, "Oh, order misplaced.
Okay, here's your number.
Go figure it out."
We really, genuinely talk to them,
like, we'd say educated besties.
Like, you are their bestie.
You talk to them.
You keep the conversation going.
It's not just, like, "Finish order. done."
And so, in every aspect of indē wilde,
community is infused.
It almost sounds like you're saying,
"Listen to your followers,
and speak to them constantly."
-Exactly.
-Is that community?
Because I don't know what-- Community
is sounding like spirituality to me.
I don't think it's about--
We all mean different things.
I think it's in--
It's everything, together.
What's the best community?
Who runs the best community?
I mean, I think if you take his example,
it is about-- Like, there is
a whole community of people
who like to take care of their beards.
It's a small one, but there is a whole
community that looks at it as self-care
versus just looking at it as, you know,
something you have to do
on a day-to-day level.
Now, that community
is very different from people
who use the product
as personal grooming products.
They actually--
And I have a friend in London
who really takes--
who has a three to four step
grooming routine for his beard.
He lives in London,
so he has a Turkish barber
who he goes to every month
to take care of his beard.
It's his ritual,
and it's his self-care ritual, right?
-And now, there may be a...
-[Nikhil] I suspect
-Shantanu is a bit like that.
-Sorry?
No, I said I suspect
you might be a bit like that.
You have your barber
who does everything and stuff.
Yeah, so we have a whole group of barbers
who kind of work with us.
And that is exactly a community.
So, is that a community
or a group of people
-who have something in common?
-No.
How do you translate that
into a community?
Yeah, so it is about 'cause
they have a shared value, right?
So, I think-- If I have to simplify
what a community is,
it is a group of people
who have certain shared values
that they can come together
and speak about.
So, as I said, if you have acne concerns,
that's a community.
And you may have a micro-community
in that saying,
"I'm 15 years old," and then,
there is these young teenage...
I've just grown out of--
Or mums, for example.
I have two nieces,
and they're now in the 11-13 age bracket.
And they're the most impressionable
age group now.
And they're also the most exposed.
I don't think when I was 11 or 12,
I really cared about skincare.
My mom just said, "Wash your face."
And that's about it.
They know every single brand
that's trending,
whenever they go to a Tira store,
my nieces would be like,
"We saw that, you launched Fenty,
you launched that brand."
They know everything. They told me,
like, "Why don't you have this brand?"
They know it a lot more.
So there's exposure, but with that
comes a lot more pressure as well.
Right? Now, their mums are a community
-because they're trying to figure out--
-Mothers are big communities.
My sister's always asking me,
"Listen, what can I use
if she's having an acne break-out?"
I think also what happens
with community is if--
When you're truly a community of a brand,
you have a choice,
you could go to any other brand.
They could buy hair oil
from any other brand.
But the fact that they choose to come back
to indē wild every time,
that, to me, is a community,
and how you make it.
I mean, I leave it to the creative lens
of the teams as well.
-So, is community an emotion?
-[Shantanu] Yes.
It's definitely an emotion.
So, you pick one emotion, stay consistent,
then you listen
and speak to your followers
-while re-iterating that emotion.
-Yes.
-And you're the custodian of the emotion.
-[Diipa] Yeah.
How do I pick what emotion
for my community?
That's a very good question.
I think you have done six,
seven years of community building
followed by brand building
on the back of the community.
So what is that emotion
for indē wild, for example?
Is it you? Are you the emotion?
No, I think it's bigger than me.
-I think the real emotion of indē wild--
-Hot girl.
-What did he say?
[laughter]
-I mean, that could be an emotion.
-It could. It could. Absolutely.
-The more basic, the stronger it is.
-Identity, vulnerability.
I think our community's real thing,
honestly, I think in... There's pride.
Definitely, there's pride.
Like, indē wild being
that first global Indian brand,
there's that pride to it, like,
"This is ours."
-Are you selling patriotism?
-Yes.
-You have "I-N-D" in the name.
-Definitely.
There's... indē wild is purely
a very-proud-of-our-culture brand.
Is that working more?
Patriotism is selling?
-[Bhakti] For sure.
-Especially if the West is also like,
"Wow. Champi. Wow, indē wild."
Then India is like, "What? Our Champi?"
Like, our indē wild?"
And so, I think there's definitely pride
and patriotism there.
But there's also this...
There is indeed that "cool girl" effect,
what you said.
Like, indē wild users are a certain type.
Like, Rhode is a great example
of that as well.
If you use Rhode, subconsciously,
you're like, "I'm part of the It Girl.
I'm an It Girl because I use Rhode."
And how do I show that? The first few...
-Content.
-...community members I have
have to be good-looking girls as well?
Not good-looking, necessarily.
It's more...
What does a confident girl exuberate?
It's confidence.
It's your-- Dress well,
you're sure of yourself.
Like, it doesn't have to
necessarily be "hot",
but it can also be imperfectly beautiful.
-Let's actually do this.
-It's also a lifestyle, right?
You talk about the lifestyle
that comes with being the It Girl.
So, my circle of friends, my,
you know, buying into the wellness.
-I go to Pilates in the morning.
-My Sunday matcha with my Pilates.
My athleisure.
You're depicting affluence
by making it about matcha--
-[Diipa] Yes.
-Right?
-So, affluence is--
-Affluence and identity.
Let's do the small experiment
with your company.
You have two crores.
You know, you want to build a brand.
-He hasn't said if it's women or men's.
-Women's.
-Okay.
-I don't want to build for a market...
-I don't want to.
-He's, like,
"It's too slow-growing for me."
-I want scale.
-But if you're gonna build fragrances...
-Are you building a fragrance?
-Yeah.
...then the world is moving
towards unisex, by the way.
-Gourmand fragrances?
-I mean, I want you to tell me.
-I think gourmand.
-No. I think it can be for every mood.
So you can have
a whole variety of fragrances.
I think what you would pick is a hook.
Like, for example, Jo Malone is based
on these beautiful ingredient stories.
And they really, really
present it so well.
-Let's say Nikhil's Fragrance Company.
-Yeah.
Actually, don't say Nikhil 'cause
I probably have a community.
-Let's say...
-What The Fragrance.
-What The also has a community?
-Yeah, that's his whole thing.
Let's say my name is Dilip.
And I'm building a perfume company.
-[laughter]
-First question. What is your emotion?
I'm 25 years old.
I live in Bangalore.
-You have two crore rupees.
-I have two crore rupees that I borrowed.
I spent the last many years of my life
going to an engineering college.
But today, AI has come,
and I'm feeling very...
-Irrelevant.
-...obsolete and irrelevant.
-First question, what's your why?
-Yeah.
What's the white space?
-What's my why, a fragrance company?
-What's your why?
Why are you, engineer at 25,
wanting to build a fragrance company?
That's a very good question.
Because there are many reasons why--
Because I go to an engineering college
in South Bangalore, I used to go.
And people smell really bad,
and I want to change this.
-Excellent.
-I actually really like that.
-That's a good point.
-That's a very good start.
And why do they smell bad?
Because they don't use fragrance.
No, they probably do.
You're smelling them in the evening.
Sweat.
-In India, there is dust, wind...
-We have it. We've done it for you.
Your brand is going to
be India's premium brand
focused on a technology
that changes sweat,
that the sweat stink can be altered
or differentiated
like an odour-fix technology
that you put as your proprietary
ingredient within your fragrances.
But you only have two crores
to do all of this.
-So I would--
-No, two crores to start.
And then, I'll come to you guys
and raise some money.
So while you have a problem, I would say,
"Okay, there may be two or three
or four companies
already doing what you're doing."
So, I think, yes, that's your problem.
But, you know, how would you
kind of solve the white space?
But I think having a why
is very, very powerful in storytelling.
And in being authentic and real.
If you just make a business,
'cause white space, money...
No, I'm coming from a very, like...
-very practical mindset as well.
-Of course.
Because while you have the storytelling,
I think a lot of brands also fail.
Because they have storytelling,
they have all of these other things--
Okay, tell me how to build my story now.
Yeah.
So, I'm here. I've figured that why
is people around me smell horrible,
they don't use perfumes,
or maybe they do, but it's not working.
-Diipa suggested that...
-Public service.
We create an odour-fix technology.
It could go huge.
Maybe you're an engineering student
who's never...
From South Bangalore,
but who's never been seen, right?
Can I market it with the story
of, "Do it for me, not for you?"
-And you put on the perfume?
-No, absolutely not.
You cannot can't do that.
You can't market like that.
You will not build a community,
you will lose it.
You're using a sarcastic
marketing technique,
-which is also very out there.
-Yeah, that is true.
-There is a market for it.
-Okay, I'm on Instagram.
-If he's tongue-in-cheek about it, yeah.
-[Bhakti] There's so many brands--
You have to be consistent for ten years.
I'm on Instagram, I have 445 followers.
-Okay?
-Actually, Bhakti, I like that idea.
Be tongue-in-cheek sarcastic
saying, "You stink.
Nobody's ever told you you stink.
So, this is my brand for you,
the person who people
don't say you stink."
And all of us in the humidity
sweat and stink, right?
And you always want to
tell that one friend,
-"Listen, here's the perfume, use it."
-But you don't have the heart to.
-Now, this brand will do it for you.
-And should I call my perfume "Stench"?
-Call them what?
-Call my perfume "Stench."
If you're gonna be a tongue-in-cheek
branding overall.
No!
You can't break category code
so much also.
-Yeah.
-No?
You want it to be positively reinforcing
in some way, right?
-Like, "Oh, I'm going to use this."
-Yeah, Stench is a bit far.
Every perfume and deodorant and--
-How about I call it "Gutter"?
-[Diipa] No.
-You can.
-[laughter]
[Diipa] Stick to fintech.
I'm glad this is on paper.
I think Nikhil can take that risk,
Dilip should not.
-Dilip should follow category--
-I'm definitely not listing it on Tira.
No? You wouldn't list it if there
was a perfume called Stench,
if people asked for it.
-No.
-Beauty is about making people feel...
Feel good about themselves.
But everybody is doing that.
-But, again, it's about...
-For a reason, no?
Your marketing can be tongue-in-cheek.
Your content can be tongue-in-cheek.
That can be a bit sarcastic.
That can be funny.
-Why call it Gutter or Stench?
-Yeah, don't do that.
That's not what the product is.
But then you're saying the opposite
of what your product is doing.
And that's the first thing
that people see, right?
Like, that's the first relation they make.
What's the name of your product?
What's the story you're telling?
-Okay, so what do I call it?
-Anything else.
-Like, something positive.
-For example?
I Got You.
For example, Nikhil,
let's take a step back.
What are the big trends?
Like, one is gourmand.
-Second is oud.
-Yeah.
-Oud is a trend?
-Oud is big.
Third is-- Kannauj is now
the Mecca of fragrances.
So, Dilip should go to Kannauj--
What is Kannauj?
It's like the Grasse of India.
-[Bhakti] Yeah.
-It's like this perfume--
Oh, like that wet sand smell--
-No, the perfumeries.
-No, no, it's a place
-where they make perfume.
-Perfumers there...
-Right. Where is this place?
-...who, like, in the thousands.
Kannauj is UP, I think.
I'm gonna write down "go to Kannauj".
-Kannauj. K-A-N-N-A-U-J.
-What else?
I think also going back to what Diipa
said about nostalgia,
there are so many beautiful Indian...
you know, fragrances
that are native to India.
And that's a big trend
that's, you know, picking up now.
And people are kind of
also giving that, you know,
alluding to Indian fragrances
as well, right?
Jasmine is so powerful, but it's...
It's never found that rooting...
We've never kind of overly commercialised
it from a beauty perspective.
But, craziest thing...
Chanel No. 5--
Everybody knows Chanel No. 5,
their two main key notes is from India.
-Yeah.
-It's the jasmine and the rose from India.
In their documentary,
they literally showcase,
like, "The Indian Jasminica."
And they're like...
Literally from India, and a French brand
has used it for centuries now.
And... Yeah. Time to take ownership.
I also feel like the other big trend
in fragrances is that
there is gender neutrality
happening there.
-Like... people are--
-[Bhakti] Yeah.
The strong fragrances...
-My husband and I share fragrances.
-Yeah.
Very easily. Fruit--
We do fragrance shopping
together, actually.
-Fruit is becoming very common.
-No wonder Tejas smells feminine.
I don't only wear feminine fragrances--
And then, also,
to the whole layering bit, right?
So you can have a floral fragrance
and then pair it with something
extremely musky.
-Yeah.
-Then you have a fragrance
that's not too feminine,
but just enough that you like it--
And it's masculine on your spectrum.
There's a spectrum in fragrance,
but I think there will always be
a differentiation between men and women.
I take issue of this layering thing.
I feel like...
So, brands themselves, by the way,
now sell perfumes layered together.
Why do you find that an issue?
I'm paying a brand for their taste.
-For their nose to do the job.
-Yeah.
Why would I pay Chanel's perfumer
or gourmand or whatever he's called,
money for his taste in his nose,
and then I take it
and try to make it in my own?
But it's like your saying you'll buy
all your clothes from the same brand.
No. I will not go to say,
Tom Ford, and say,
"Okay, now, stitch a flower over here
and then cut this part off
-and make it in a certain way.
-I think it's just creativity.
-About self-expression.
-It's individuality.
Yeah, self-expression.
Minimalist's first brand
was actually this whole...
You remember that, right?
Minimalist's first brand was,
these guys said,
"You tell me all the ingredients you want
and all the stuff you want done,
and we'll put it together
and give you a personalised sample."
But that happens in the US a lot.
It may not be everything you want,
but, in skincare,
they will create a special...
-Questionnaire and all that.
-Questionnaire.
You know, based on your skin type--
-How does that business model work?
-Very hard.
-I've tried that. It's a pain in the ass.
-[Diipa] It's crazy.
I mean, your supply chain
just goes for a toss.
But I think that people have tried it.
Hyper-personalised skincare.
That's there now.
Remember we were talking about
how beauty has been through those phases?
Beauty is in this self-expression phase.
So, while it's a shared value,
community is also driving beauty,
it's still you.
There is a "you" and an "us",
and the "you" part of you
is driving all of these movements.
But you know what?
I think, for your business,
the layering part can actually be
a part of your offering.
Because, in fragrances, it's a lot easier.
It's much easier
to mix fragrances together.
But I'm a 25-year-old guy,
I've lost my job.
I don't know what to do in life.
I don't want to have ten bottles
and I'm layering--
[overlapping conversations]
-You're confusing who the customer is.
-You're cross-selling.
-Is it for yourself or to women?
-I'm telling--
You started off saying women.
Then why do you keep thinking of Dilpreet?
-Dilip.
-What did you call him?
-Dilpreet.
No, but, tell me one thing.
You want to build a fragrance brand...
Yeah. For women.
Your issue is that you don't want them
to go to, like, ten fragrances,
and buy Bella Vita--
No, I don't want that.
-But you can yourself create--
-You can do it.
You sell it to the consumers
saying, "Hey, you take this fragrance.
Great, you like it on its own. Amazing.
But you take this plus this,
and now you've got a fragrance,
especially for you.
And I'm telling you
how to create it." So...
You remember the big moment
with fragrance?
The big aha moment in layering?
-You know when it happened?
-I don't know.
There was an Instagram reel which had
20 Bollywood actresses saying,
"I just love how Shah Rukh Khan smells."
He will smoke--
-He does smell good.
-But he smells amazing.
There's Kareena Kapoor
and Priyanka Chopra and Katrina.
All the women who men aspire to, like,
date someone like her
or marry someone like her,
saying, "This dude smells so good."
And then, there's a separate video
of Shah Rukh Khan saying,
"I layer two fragrances,
Diptyque something
and something, something."
And then, there are 20 Dilips in India
who combined these two fragrances,
made a SKU and just sold it on Myntra.
You know what he does?
He doesn't spray perfume on himself.
He takes his jacket, holds it like this,
and he sprays.
-Really?
-Like 20 times.
-How do you know that?
-Because I've seen him do it.
Some people also spray and walk into it.
Yeah, that's, like, you do and then...
Does any of that make a difference?
I'm not still selling this, guys.
Like, Dilip has no own business
going right now.
-You need to believe, Dilip.
-You need to have--
[laughter]
It's not working out.
Dilip is not delusional enough
to be an entrepreneur.
Fine, you want to do fragrances,
but you don't want to do the layering bit.
-Yeah.
-Okay, fair. That's-- You don't--
Okay, first thing,
I'm building for the mass,
premium, or prestige category?
I think three digit price point.
I would say entry-premium,
because there's a great segment.
-What price am I selling it?
-Above 1,000.
-Yeah.
-But below 2,000.
-No, that's too expensive.
-[Diipa] There are so many.
You are very mass.
There's too many players under 1,000.
I would say between
the 1,000 to 2,000 space.
-1,000 to 2,000 is empty.
-That's not possible. How?
How big-- Sorry, can I talk in Hindi?
-Yeah.
-How big do you want the business to be?
-500 crores.
-That's it? That's your upper limit?
Then you can... I think that can be--
This can be much bigger with 1,000...
That's it? Where have you come from?
Zara is doing fragrances at 1,000 rupees.
-How much does Zara sell?
-I'm just saying... entry price point.
That becomes entry price point.
-Because anything under that is...
-Too mass.
My view is you should be able to give
value and aspiration.
100%. But today,
when you're looking at a fragrance
that is a Dior or a Chanel
or even lower, right?
Everyone wants to aspire there.
So, when you're talking about fragrance,
you want to also make it
a little bit more aspirational.
So, you can start small. So, you can say,
"Okay, I'll have a 50ml at 1,000.
And then maybe a 30ml at 400 or 500."
If you want to give them
good-quality perfume,
if you look at a 599, 499,
you want a 80% margin--
No, I was thinking more 999.
Okay, that is 1,000.
-That's 1,000.
-But not 1,000 to 2,000.
999 is a very nice price point.
But even that 80% margin,
then, like, the quality of ingredients
you're gonna have
are not gonna be as good
as the quality of ingredients
that a proper perfume would have.
And this is very true
in a market like beauty--
Clean. I'm talking clean fragrances.
No, just going to this point of margin
and everything.
-As opposed to odour-free--
-The $200 product versus a $20 product,
-there is a big difference.
-There is?
Yeah, significantly,
because of the quality of ingredients.
So, this is one industry
where you're, like,
you know, particularly
in the efficacy of ingredients.
But if he doesn't care about that...
So, it doesn't mean that
you won't get the same results.
But there is a difference in selling...
You're not selling the same thing
at $20 and $200.
The results can be the same
because you're using
different kinds of ingredients.
But, in an industry like beauty,
yes, there is mark-up, there is margin.
I thought perfumes are like bottled water.
There's no difference between $200 and $2.
Huge difference.
Just, if you would go to--
-Don't they operate at 90% margin?
-Yeah, they do.
So, nobody is spending more than,
like, 50 bucks in making the product.
They do. But packaging makes
a big difference. Glass versus plastic.
Forget packaging,
I'm talking about quality of product.
It does.
Like, there's the weight of the oil.
If you use pure saffron oil
versus if you use
a synthetic saffron oil, huge difference.
How much will it cost me
to make a 100ml perfume
with pure, good, clean ingredients?
Less than 1,000.
I think you can get it done
for 500 or 600.
Okay, none of us have a fragrance brand.
So, we can't really give you
that much detail.
-And we won't be, like, accurate.
-Absolutely accurate about it.
We just launched a 999 fragrance.
Oh, he does have. Okay.
You can give him the details.
We just launched, like, a week back.
-Under which brand?
-Bombay Shaving Company.
So, it's called Toxic Fruit
and Little Beach.
-By Bombay Shav-- Fruit.
-You call your fragrance toxic?
-Oh, like the forbidden fruit.
-Yeah.
And Little Beach.
So, it's kind of rebellious.
It's like Bombay Shaving Company
in a way, at 999.
-So, it's a big price point for us.
-Online, offline?
-Both.
-It's doing good?
-Omnichannel.
-Start is good.
-We are at 100 DRR now.
-[Diipa] Wow.
We're selling 100 units per day.
But, it's good. People will try.
Is that a non-negotiable? Omnichannel?
-Yeah.
-I think, yeah. Today, omnichannel.
If you want to grow at scale,
omnichannel is the way to go.
And that's where multi-brand
retailers like us come in, right?
Because if you're talking
about a D2C brand, yes,
you can start your own website,
but I already have captive audience.
I already have the customer.
I had an idea, actually. There's a whole--
-For Dilip or for me?
-For Dilip.
We were thinking about community.
Like, for example,
there's a huge opportunity to build out
the fraghead community of India.
-Explain. I don't even know--
-Fragheads are people who--
-Like sneakerheads.
But fragheads are people who understand--
So, they're called "noses."
So, if you're a nose, you can distinguish
between multiple notes.
And there is, like,
in a group of five friends,
the nose has become
like this status symbol that you're--
It's like a good wine-taster
in a group of people who like wine.
-For example.
-Like, a sneakerhead is cool.
A sommelier is cool.
I don't know about fragheads.
That's what he's saying, build it up.
-[Shantanu] Build it up.
-Make it cool.
-That becomes a common purpose.
-How we made the champi cool.
-And that's a community.
-Then, it's a community.
Now, you can also make insane content
about this community.
You get fragheads into your podca--
Whatever. To your Bangalore home.
I can go around smelling celebrities...
-Yeah.
-...and making expressions.
Have smelling events. Bring them together.
Let them create their own
signature perfume.
And then you can have food
associated with it.
Can I tell you a funny story?
So, I rented this place some time ago.
And I've had a few house managers
along the way.
One of them--
For three months of the year,
the area smells like dead fish.
One of them joined. I was not in town.
I spend, like, a week a month here.
One of them joined and quit
even before he could ever meet me.
And he said this area smells so bad
that he can't survive.
-Wow!
-So, smell is a big--
-He had a very strong nose, yeah.
So, smell is a problem.
But good smell is not equally proportional
as an incentive to do a trigger.
To be a trigger event.
No, it is. In what way?
Like, I feel like I can sell fear
around bad smell
much more than I can sell
the incentive of good smell.
-No, no, no. I totally disagree with you.
-[Bhakti and Diipa] No!
-No?
-Because good smell triggers--
Again, we spoke about emotion.
It triggers that emotion in you,
it triggers a memory.
It triggers something.
It takes you back to some moment
in your life.
-It also triggers a memory.
-The same way, makeup,
like, when women put it on,
they feel almost like this...
more confident versions of themselves,
perfume has the power to do that, too.
The second you smell
an incredible perfume--
Like, I can feel suddenly
more stronger in myself.
Or you can armour yourself or something.
Or you feel more sophisticated.
Or you feel more... It's like another--
like, putting on clothes.
It's sensual as well.
Yeah, it's like another part
of your identity you can put on.
-Some people...
-Big time. It's happening a lot.
Some people can have the same fragrance
for many years.
Like, Old Spice, my dad. Like, forever--
-I love Old Spice.
-That generation...
I love everything that smells
like a barber shop.
Oh, why doesn't Dilip make Old Spice
in a new way?
Nostalgia, plus a smell
that everyone remembers.
-Like, spicy.
-[Shantanu] Layer it up, right?
I think it's a fantastic idea.
-And throw in a Cool Water.
-Mixed with--
-Oh, wait for this, whiskey smoke.
-Yeah.
-Or Old Spice, plus, like, Danish--
-He's like, "Mmm!"
That could work.
Old Spice with a vegetable?
-No, I think bakery.
-You make it so un-sexy so quickly.
I think, by the end of this,
we are never going to want to...
-Cabbage?
-...create a fragrance brand.
-Old Spice jalebis?
-Yeah.
-I think that'll do really well.
-You can make an entire--
Old Spice and sweet is like a very nice--
...a bath and body range
as well with that.
I think step one, for you,
is to find a good nose.
Because cabbage and Old Spice--
Let them do it.
You can develop it, I think.
-No, I don't think--
-He cannot develop this.
Your bathroom, there's some
really nice fragrances, by the way.
-That doesn't mean he's a good nose.
-I'm assuming you have...
-You have to be unbiased.
-...had some say on--
I've had no say on anything in life,
pretty much.
But... let's say Old Spice.
What did we say with?
-Danish pastry, I think?
-Cabbage.
-I think... With bakery.
-Old Spice with jalebi.
-With bakery or jalebi.
-Jalebis are not sexy.
-Basque cheesecake.
-Jalebis are sexy?
-Old Spice with leather.
-You'll be amazed, Nikhil...
-...how much--
-Do you wanna make it for men or women?
-Women.
Old Spice with something
gourmand, yeah? Vanilla.
-Vanilla.
We'll have men for that.
We'll have men takers for that.
-Yeah, I like vanilla-smelling perfumes.
-Yeah.
Vanilla is one of the most popular
scent profiles.
I don't know.
I don't know if this is selling,
but we'll come back to this, okay?
So, community offline helps.
Online also helps.
Offline, I think, has an impact
which is exponential in nature.
I don't know why, with most communities,
I've found that.
When I bring a bunch of people together
who see each other physically
and touch each other--
-"Touch each other." I think it kind of...
-You sound like a cult.
No, but if you're doing offline--
Like, making content around it
and distributing it on
fraghead communities--
Yeah, exactly.
There is a dual effect for that.
-And, I agree, patriotism is selling.
-Yeah.
And Trump has four years left.
-Three, three and a half.
-It'll sell more up until then.
His tariffs affecting you?
Big time. You were asking...
One of your first questions was
your share in business, right?
Um, US used to be 60%.
-Uh-huh.
-And, in the last year,
thanks to people like Tira,
our retail has grown 500% in India.
And now, India is 60% and US is 40%.
So, back then, US was 40,
and India was, uh--
US was 60, India was 40.
Now, it's flipped.
This is another thing that India has done.
Where do you manufacture?
Um, I'm one of those really
product-obsessed people.
We go wherever the best manufacturing is.
It's not-- My husband hates it
'cause he does the ops and finance part.
-You guys work together?
-We do.
-Wow.
-We're co-founders, yeah.
-[Shantanu] Wow.
-So, where do you manufacture?
So, we manufacture, um,
like, Champi is in India, obviously.
But like, our lip balms are in Korea,
'cause I found the best lab there for it.
Our eye cream is Japan.
Again, Indian ingredients,
but manufactured in Japan.
So, tariffs are hitting you,
but not at 50%.
Every corner. Every side.
This might be an opportunity in itself.
Make Indian products
outside of India to beat tariffs.
Yeah.
-I'm--
-Sorry,
-make Indian products where?
-Outside of India.
-Why?
-Make Indian products
-outside of India.
-There is a demand
for Indian products,
and you don't have to pay 50%.
And sell them there. Yeah.
For the American market.
I'm not suggesting that.
It's a bad idea.
A lot of Indian companies
have now created US subsidiaries
-because of TikTok shop.
-Yeah.
-TikTok shop is huge.
-It's huge.
A lot of people,
when I was researching this,
told me that...
Instagram is content created by brands.
-And TikTok is more UGC.
-Yes. That's--
I mean, there is TikTokification happening
of Instagram as well.
-I don't think it's managed to crack it.
-What is it called? Perfume talk.
-Perfume talk, yeah.
-Perfume talk, yeah. Perfume talk.
There's every talk.
Like, in TikTok, there is every talk...
-Skin talk, hair talk, hair oiling talk.
-Frag talk, perfume talk.
This talk, that talk, every talk.
And TikTok is insane.
I hope we get it to India soon. Um...
No, buddy. Have you seen...
But recently, we saw some news, right?
China, India were shaking hands.
I met a Unilever guy who heads China.
So, we hear all these numbers, no?
I was blown away.
I don't know whether you know this.
Douyin, which is TikTok, is 40% of retail.
It has broken
every marketing rule possible
for one reason.
It's because there's now
so much content for consumers,
they're doing four hours of research
before they buy a face wash.
So, now this whole thing
that if you're creating a brand,
then just tell me one message
for ten years...
But it's gone out of the window.
You have to tell everything.
But you're still buying more than
you would have bought,
-if not for TikTok.
-Consumption goes up,
but it becomes very noisy.
Very noisy.
-So brands--
-But net-net good only, no?
But the question then is,
why doesn't TikTok
create their white-labelled products
if they know what sells
and they can influence it?
'Cause that's not the game
they're playing in.
It's like Amazon
not making private labels.
-Why would they?
-Eventually, the Chinese companies
tend to do everything, right?
I don't think they need to.
Like, Amazon does that.
Now they have TikTok shops
where they keep a percentage
of every sale every brand does.
So, they're already making so much.
And ad sales on top of that.
And shop sales.
So, like, they have enough
revenue... streams.
But making globally relevant fragrances
will be a good idea for Dilip.
-Coming back to...
-Dilip.
You might be Dilip.
I think building from India
for the world...
is something that--
We have to start doing
a lot more of what she does.
What indē wild is doing.
-Yeah.
-100%. I think the world's ready.
Like, we've had Korean skincare, beauty,
obviously, explode in the world.
-Japanese skincare, beauty.
-Japanese.
We've had fragrances from France.
We've had skincare from France.
Like, it's all happened.
-It's time--
-It's time for India.
It's time for India.
And indē wild doing that.
And we've done it with Ayurveda.
-We've done a bunch of exporting.
-Yeah.
But still, the UK-- Still, like--
If you look at Kama, Forest,
they're only in the UK.
-Like, nobody really dominated the US.
-I feel like that's a big step, right?
For a brand to go outside of India,
have this stunning presence,
and for people to kind of
-bench it on global...
-Yeah.
...uh, you know, with global brands.
And take their names in the same breath.
And I think we would have never
imagined that, like, ten years ago.
And I think that just goes back
to what you said...
-So, the fact that--
-[Shantanu] But we've done it.
...patriotism, pride.
But even ten years ago,
when I was growing up,
I would never imagine Sephora,
the Sephora,
take an Indian brand like indē wild,
and build a global partnership.
-Yeah.
-I mean, Sephora America
is, like, the World Cup of beauty.
Like, there's nothing bigger
than Sephora North America.
And for them to be like, "indē wild,
we want you to come launch with us,"
is... Yeah.
And Ayurveda and Indian beauty, for sure.
We haven't celebrated enough.
Ayurveda is hugely, like,
popular right now.
You know the supermarket store,
Erewhon, right, in LA?
-So, this time, I went there.
-You get $40 smoothies there,
-by the way.
-I like going there.
It's so good.
But it's expensive, but it's good.
But if you look at their shelves,
everything, shilajit, shatavari,
turmeric, ashwagandha.
Like, there is a craze,
in, at least, the wellness, like,
and of longevity--
-And there's a lot of sea moss.
-Sea moss.
Yeah, but that's not Indian.
I'm focusing on the Indian ones.
That's the main thing in the store.
I think it's a way of life, right?
And I think that, to your point,
when we were talking about
what we got from the West, right?
I think now,
Indians are kind of understanding
the longstanding traditions
and heritage that India comes with.
And kind of... We've always had it.
I think we're just now
extremely proud of it.
And I think Indian beauty
is a way of life.
-Wellness.
-Yeah.
I think it's wellness, like, with Ayurveda
has really been, like,
intricately woven into India for so long,
that we ourselves
didn't give it enough credit.
Like, if you look at yoga, meditation,
breathwork, mindfulness,
we've all had it, you know.
It took the West to be like, "Wow!"
Scientifically prove it,
and now, we're like,
"Oh, my God,
we should be nervous system reset."
Kapalbhati, you know?
Do you think a high-end
boutique hotel, like Aman,
with Indian yoga, breathwork,
turmeric, all of that will do well?
-It will...
-Like, insane.
-Insane.
I think Kapil is doing that with Postcard
in a way, no?
-It's all about longevity...
-That's more India, inward-looking.
I'm talking outside of India.
-And outside, it will work even better.
-Even better.
He has something in Bhutan.
I think he's going outside now.
He wants to build
the best hotel in the world.
-But, guys, like, the longevity...
-But that's not so much around wellness.
Postcard is more take a home,
retain the aesthetic.
Postcard is more... Yeah, exactly that.
Clean.
There's no yoga. There's no breathwork.
-There's no wellness.
-[Diipa] No.
It's not pivoted on wellness.
I think the searches in the pandemic
for, like, ingredients like ghee.
Like, all the fitness bros now
cook in ghee.
You know? Because, like,
the smoke point is really high,
and it's super healthy.
-Our dadi was like, "Cook in ghee."
-Desi ghee.
"It's the best,"
and we never believed her.
But now, indeed, they're all
getting scientifically backed,
and it's growing a lot.
What about influence?
I'm starting a brand.
I have figured out, maybe,
how to make a deal with salons,
if it's in hair.
I figured out a old product
I can bring back and sell nostalgia.
I have added the Indian narrative to it.
Patriotism. I have found a emotion.
I have doubled down on the emotion.
I talk to the people who follow me,
the few people.
I listen and I speak to them often.
And I have figured out that
I have one hero product
that I'm starting with.
That product is, let's say, a moisturiser.
Okay, for the lack of a better word.
Omnichannel. I'm on Tira.
I'm in some physical stores.
I'm selling online, all of that.
Now, I have come to a point
where I've realised that
all of this is only taking it so far,
and I need to figure out
my influencing and marketing piece.
How do I do that?
Are you sure the product works?
-The 100--
-The hero product question.
The 100 people I'm speaking to
right now are buying it.
-So, your repeat rates are 70-80%.
-Yeah.
Then... then my view is...
My view has always been, like,
the best influencers
are your current customers.
-And the best--
-Not celebrities who I...
Not-- not early on, no?
My view is just take the product
and start sending it to celebrities.
-And see who starts liking it.
-Can I do that?
Just send it to them and they'll post it?
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
-Has a celebrity posted it for you?
-Oh, plenty of times.
-Just by sending it to them?
-Yeah, plenty of times.
-[Diipa] That's lovely.
-Who?
Men. Multiple.
So, we send it to Rannvijay.
We send it to Ashwin.
-We send it to...
-[Diipa] Who's Ashwin?
The off-spinner. The Indian cricketer.
If she's asking who,
there's a problem with the celebrity.
-The cricketer.
-It's a different-- different demographic.
Legend cricketer.
When we launched the head shaver,
we had sent it to Raghu and Rajiv.
-Uh...
-[Diipa] Oh!
-They posted?
-Uh-huh.
-Raghu and Rajiv. In fact--
-Just on--
-They're legends.
-Yeah.
-Handwritten note from the founder.
-Wow.
Handwritten note from the founder.
Someone from the team
getting in touch for the address.
Like, you have to make the effort
to make the person feel special.
Perhaps it was less cluttered then?
-Were you the first one?
-There's no head shaver.
With Ashwin, it was with trimmers.
With Rannvijay also, it was trimmers.
-Because when did you start the brand?
-2016.
Okay, so it was
a less cluttered market. No?
-Which one? Trimmers?
-In men grooming, skincare...
It was a smaller market,
but it was getting cluttered quickly.
There were, like, some legacy players.
This is similar.
Tell me some conversion rates.
How many celebrities did you send it to,
and how many posted?
What was the cost of that exercise?
Till date, we have probably sent
10,000-12,000...
free samplers to micro influencers,
macro influencers, creators,
and then cricketers, actors,
television, et cetera.
We've probably had 500 organic.
500 organic. 5%.
Is it more the product or your letter
that is getting the trigger?
It's a combination.
I think as I have also
built a public profile,
people also know that, "Okay,
this can be like a give-and-take thing."
And then, the conversion
has gone up as a brand.
So, they post and you repost
and that gets them distribution.
-Post, repost--
-But I don't have that as a new person.
I don't think any celebrity will...
So, I'm keeping quiet,
'cause I love influencer marketing
and topic, like, we do it very well.
But, indeed, if you're telling me
the person is starting
-with no following...
-Mmm.
...it is a harder game, indeed.
A lot of people like our...
We send about, per launch,
say, 500 to 600 influencer boxes
for any launch.
-50% post us.
-Yeah.
50%, because they're like,
"Diipa will repost.
Diipa will look at it."
Or I think that's an aspect,
and second aspect I think is
indē wild is such a loved brand
that they look forward to the PR box.
'Cause every time a PR box
is an experience,
it's like-- and so, for a young girl
to get an amazing box
where you open it and it looks
super pretty and the product is there,
they want to show the content
to their following as well.
So, it becomes like
a content piece for them, altogether.
So we have
a really high organic love
and kind of push for packages and gifting,
but if I didn't have a following,
I don't know. It's a hard one.
I would say, indeed,
you start with micros then.
Start with nanos and micros who,
even if they have 2,000
or 5,000 followers,
you start with them and start
building them into a community,
the word that we keep saying.
And then, start from there,
and then start levelling up slowly.
And that's where I think that
shared purpose or value comes, right?
That you find those creators
-who align with your brand.
-The key ones.
Who are the fragheads or--
And they grow with you
because I think that's the beauty of it.
If you don't have that much money,
you will have about 20 of them versus--
And I truly believe
that the nanos and the micros
get you a lot more traction.
-Organic reach.
-And conversion.
-Yeah.
Versus, you know, using mega influencers.
You use mega influencers
for the awareness.
And the problem with mega is
they are very used to getting paid.
-Exactly.
-So, because they're so used to
getting paid, and they get
1,000 packages a month
from all the different brands
in the world,
for an unknown small brand,
they're less likely to open it,
so it goes to waste.
-And they charge a lot.
It's all brand collab--
paid brand collaboration.
By the way, Meta...
Instagram is now bigger than WhatsApp
in India on daily active.
It's a crazy number.
Did you guys know this?
-[Diipa] No.
-Instagram, like, two weeks back,
has gone ahead of WhatsApp
on daily actives.
And creator partnerships are becoming big.
The thing with micro influencers is
that they will do it for you
even if you're a small brand,
with two expectations.
One, that I might become
a brand ambassador
or I could get an influencer deal
if I do a good piece of content
to start with.
Two, is my friends will think
that I'm now getting paid for content.
So, you start signalling
that you're an influencer also.
That's what I said.
Like, indeed, they feel like
they can use this for content.
Like, it becomes like, "Oh,
-brands work with me now."
-Yeah.
So, if I'm trying to build
influence or marketing,
I should definitely send it to celebrities
bottom-up, start with micro.
With the gift box, should have
a heartfelt handwritten letter.
-And I need to repost if they share.
-Yes.
And if it can be unique, cherry on top.
Like, not like every other box
that they are getting,
but think of something outside the box.
Can you give it to them in a...
in a... I don't know, a tin box?
Can you give it to them in a--
with fresh flowers?
Is there something unique?
I was going to say that if you have
some element of storytelling...
Yeah, or a surprise and delight.
...that goes far enough,
and then, you create that unboxing moment.
So, again, you're telling the consumers
about the brand in that moment, right?
So, again, we were talking about that
how do consumers interact
for the first time, through influencers,
in that moment.
So, you kind of think
of that entire piece together.
Oh, they're unboxing the brand.
They're seeing the brand
for the first time.
So, that kind of is as much
for the consumer as for the creator.
-Yeah.
-So, you think of it that way as well.
I also think sampling distribution
is a huge opportunity
which we don't do well enough on.
-Explain.
-[Bhakti] 100%.
Like, for example, my favourite example
of sampling distribution is Uncle Chipps.
Uncle Chipps distributors would go with
big garlands of Uncle Chipps
around their neck
and go into a village
and the kid would, like--
-Did they?
-Yeah. The kids would just come.
And you'd feed a chip here,
feed a chip there,
suddenly, kids are buying, moms are there.
That is full guerrilla marketing.
I love it.
Yeah, so with fragrances--
Like, going into a college fest,
for example,
with, like, a whole suitcase
of your perfumeric innovations,
yourself smelling really great.
What is the word you used for this?
Sampling?
-Sampling.
-Yeah, sampling, like...
You basically get a sachet
of something or a trial,
not even a trial pack.
It's a small sampling...
sample that you can use
for maybe two or three washes
or two or three moisturising.
You can also do it really well
with a Tira,
where you say, "Hey, Tira,
I am going to give you 100,000 samples."
Put it in every order.
But that doesn't work.
That never worked for me.
-You don't think so?
-It's not-- Blink...
Tira, I don't know,
but Blinkit does not work.
But the thing is, I think it really
depends on who the customer is.
-We did a lot.
-Who your target is.
We did a lot in terms of...
is it correlated or not,
is KitKat going after a buyer or not?
Everything was done, yet,
the repeats are just not there.
I think it works if you do it correctly.
-It's great for even upselling, right?
-Maybe we've done a bad job.
So, if you want to convert
a mass brand into...
You want to convert a consumer
who is shopping in mass
for haircare to masstige.
Then you will send them
that masstige sample,
and I will upsell them.
Especially if the product has been getting
-a lot of buzz in social.
-Exactly.
And people are hesitant to buying it
because, say, price or whatever,
and then they get that sample.
They're so happy.
Especially if it's a deluxe sample.
And they get to try it once in their hair.
Or, like, try it on their face
two, three times.
And they're like, "Oh, I've been dying.
Now I got this.
Now I'm going to buy full size."
And that's where minis come in.
In beauty, the mini
and travel size is just...
It's a whole business on its own.
And, in fact, this-- A Bobbi Brown
area manager told me this, that...
India is a mini capital of the world.
Like, global brands have produced
their best sellers,
particularly for India,
because they know that
India is a value market.
Value, I don't mean that
we move from price consciousness to...
to saying that I will pay for the product
if I find value in it.
So, to cross that barrier, they're like,
"Okay, we'll give you a mini."
You still pay for it
after having "sampled" it.
There is that, you know, that bridge.
So, you buy a mini
of our best-selling product.
If you like it,
then you will buy the full size.
So, they've built that bridge,
particularly,
to get you from a masstige
to a premium brand.
And you may not even
move into the full size.
You sell the mini,
or do you just give it away?
-You sell the mini.
-[Diipa] You sell it.
-So, like, Estée Lauder...
-Which is a great SKU.
-Estée Lauder, specifically...
-With MAC.
...did a phenomenal mini job with MAC.
Like, for India, specifically,
they made their lipsticks--
lipstick in a mini form.
It was like a tiny lipstick.
Killed it.
Because they don't want
to wardrobe it, no?
And their best-selling shades,
not the ones that don't sell too much.
-Same with the moisture surge minis.
-Exactly. Minis.
Everything is like, "Oh, I want luxury,
but give it to me in an affordable price
so I can try it.
And then, I'll buy the full thing."
But it's the whole
wardrobing thing, right?
If I'm gonna keep 30,
I don't want 30 100mls or whatever.
I want to have 30...
Are you talking fragrance or skincare?
Both, I think.
Skincare people wouldn't wardrobe, no?
-With colour, for example?
-Yeah, makeup. Yeah.
You will want brown one day.
For example, a mascara runs out...
If you open it, in six months,
you have to finish it,
or else you should not be using it.
So, I only buy mini mascaras
because I'm like, "Okay, great.
I only use that much.
So, I will only buy a mini mascara."
Is that true for perfume?
You shouldn't use it after six months?
-[Bhakti] No.
-There is expiry dates of perfumes.
Expiry, but it's-- Yeah, for perfumes.
For mascaras, it just clumps after...
Yeah, mascaras, for sure.
I think supermarkets do this right
where I feel like the sampling
works better in person.
When you give somebody
something in person,
it may be a Tira store or a supermarket.
We have a vending machine that,
when you enter, even if you don't walk out
with anything that you've purchased,
you walk out with a sample
because, you know, we've made it...
We've gamified it.
You know, you put in your number
and, uh, you know, your email address.
And you select which sample
you want for that.
You know, you'll have fragrance sample,
a skincare sample, and a makeup sample,
and you select which one you want.
And we let you take
one sample in two months.
So, every two months
when you come to our store,
you get something to take back.
And we work with brands
to really utilise this to,
again, for sampling.
So, again, you gamified it.
You've created a moment.
And offline is all about experiences.
So you've created that experience.
The two greatest sampling successes
from a brand standpoint
was Lifebuoy at Kumbh Mela
in COVID 2020 or 2021?
Where they gave Lifebuoy
to everyone who was eating roti,
so that before you eat, you use Lifebuoy.
The second one was Paper Boat
in Indigo Airlines.
Paper Boat was built as a brand,
again, nostalgic taste,
by distributing as samples
on Indigo Airlines,
and then it became something--
a part of the menu and then...
This nostalgia keeps coming back,
the more I think about it.
Paper Boat was about nostalgic flavours.
I think you might be
bang-on with your Champi.
-Yeah. Especially with Gen Z.
-Is that what it's called? Champi?
-Champi Hair Oil. Yeah.
-Mm.
Even the name, I had to fight in my team.
They were like, "No, but, like,
don't call it that.
We all have a bad connotation with it."
I'm like, "No, it's gonna work."
Because it's-- it's a ritual.
You're literally putting
the name of what we all know.
-It's a household name.
-Yeah.
On a bottle. It's gonna work.
Could a brand of just minis work?
Yes. I think in the category...
or in fragrances, yes, I think so.
-Yeah.
-[Nikhil] Yeah?
Fragrances, for sure.
-Like, it is...
-It's also expensive to make minis.
Yeah. That's true.
The margins are not as good.
Yeah. The margins are not great in minis,
because you have to make
that much product.
And your packaging
still costs the same, so...
I actually was going to ask you--
That's just from the limited
knowledge that I have that,
you know, brands don't like minis
as much as consumers.
Correct. That's true.
I was actually gonna ask you
whether sustainability is something
Dilip cares about a lot,
because that's another Gen Z trend.
I don't think that's a trend right now.
It was a trend yesterday.
No, it's a bare minimum.
I think you have to care about it.
-[Nikhil] Yeah?
-But I don't know.
-Do you think that...
-I think, again, maybe...
-Do you think something sells more--
-Sustainability is also
-a little bit of affluence.
-Yeah.
Does something sell more
because it's sustainable?
Maybe in India, not as much yet.
But I think, again, the Gen Z value
is starting to become more important.
And for me, as a founder,
I don't want to clutter the market more.
Like, if you look at even
just sustainable in every measure,
they say, you know,
our packaging is mostly glass,
so it can be recycled better.
We have six SKUs
in three and a half years.
We're not in the business
of building 200 SKUs, 300 SKUs,
clutter the market.
We really are, like,
hero product strategy only.
Talk to the consumers. What do they want?
Build it for them.
And then really put all your
marketing might in six SKUs,
instead of, "Which one am I picking here?"
Like, am I playing-- you know,
you're gambling then.
So, I think sustainability, for me,
as a founder, is very important.
Do you put it on every product?
That we're sustainable? No.
Because it's a given.
Like, I don't...
I don't need to scream about it.
I agree with that.
That's why I don't think
-putting sustainability will sell.
-No.
No, so, I'll tell you
where I'm coming from.
The reason is, I think today's Gen Z,
whether it comes to food or personal care,
actually cares about
the product inside the bottle,
not the bottle so much.
They're way too smart for that.
And if you make that
a point of your communication,
you don't need to spend 30% of your COGS
on a glass bottle that looks great.
You can get away with a product
that is much cheaper.
It could be an idea for Dilip.
Yeah. And then, you actually focus
all the money on the product inside.
It can be a plain black bottle,
and my marketing can be
not about the bottle.
-For Dilip?
-Ordinary is all about that.
You know, have you seen
those Ordinary billboards
all over the place where they're like,
-I'm marketing--
-Ordinary eggs.
Yeah, people told us
we should hire celebrities,
but we put all our marketing money
into building the best product ever.
They said "Make better packaging,"
but we put all the money
into the formulations.
Yeah.
"Not about the bottle" is a good line.
-Do you think?
-Yeah.
-Yeah?
-Because fragrance is always--
-Dilip is starting to feel better slowly.
But, for sustainability,
I think the thought leaders
of the world today
are moving away from sustainability.
And hence, I think it will trickle down,
permeate down to the consumer as well.
If you hear a Trump talk
about bring plastic straws back,
drill, baby, drill.
I was doing a--
You mean, you're saying
it's going to get backwards.
Regressing. Yeah. We're regressing.
The novelty around sustainability
has gone, I think.
It was really big two years ago,
in my opinion.
-No, we get a lot of push.
-I don't think so.
-You don't think so?
-I think the young consumers care.
Yeah. India, for sure.
Globally, I don't know.
India, for sure, young consumers.
Urban, young, affluent consumers
will care.
-They care.
-[Nikhil] I don't know.
It'll be a differentiator.
If it were, Diipa would have
"sustainable" on her packaging.
No, because they know
what a conscious brand I'm building.
When I speak to... The content I make
is about we are sustainable,
we are vegan,
but we're not screaming about it
because that's a no-brainer for us.
You know, being vegan, being this.
-It's like the table stakes.
-Cruelty-free-- Table stakes.
-This is how we stand out.
-But it's also...
I feel like the word "sustainability"
has been used around in very many ways
and people also have
some amount of doubt around it,
that what is actually sustainable.
So, I think brands also
do stay away from--
for the fear of getting called out.
Because anything you say today
that's sustainable,
you will still get
called out for it, right?
So, I think there's a little bit
of fear as well
on what the consumer
really believes you stand for.
So, I think it's kind of not being able
to distil those sustainable values,
what sustainability in beauty
really stands for.
Like, right now,
if we talk about sustainability,
technically, it's less consumption, right?
But now, there's refillable.
So, that's a step in the right direction.
But is it 100% sustainable? No.
But you're still kind of-- again,
it's all about creating that lifestyle.
So, I think it's still about
the lifestyle.
I think being honest about that,
I think, also, with founders
who are a little sustainable,
nobody can be all the way sustainable
because, then, you don't have a brand.
If you're gonna be...
Like, be honest about,
"These are the areas
we're working on our sustainability.
These are areas that we cannot yet,
until we get scale
or until we can, you know..."
The refillable programme.
-Or there's a way to do it.
-Exactly.
Because, sometimes, there's no way out.
Just be honest.
I think that's the main thing.
Because you said "honest" so many times,
like, I am as far removed
an expert in this industry
as anyone can be.
But looking from afar,
it feels like the sustainable,
organic, natural movement
happened when...
Was it Jessica Alba
started The Honest Company?
-Which was six, seven years ago?
-Long back. Ten years back.
-Ten years ago?
-If you say so, yeah.
-I feel like--
-Goop, Gwyneth Paltrow.
-Yeah.
-Yeah. Goop.
I feel like the wave after that
was the wave of actives.
-Yeah.
-Yes.
Which was, maybe, a couple of years ago.
Mm-hmm.
And most companies that I looked at,
which did really well,
were companies that caught on
to a change in cycle
before the cycle changed.
I think Minimalist was exactly
in that spot.
So, my question to you guys is,
if the active cycle is midway,
what comes next?
And what can I build
to catch on to the next cycle
-before the others scale?
-I don't think it's about sustainability.
I think the Gen Z younger consumers,
are actually,
what we are now starting to realise
are Skinimalists.
-Just give me what I need.
-What is this now?
-[Bhakti] Skin-Minimalism.
-Skin-Minimalism.
So just, like,
Minimalist is a classic example.
Just give me these three molecules.
I don't need the jazz around it.
I don't need a 10-step skincare routine.
So, if that is what they're thinking,
why should I have three molecules?
Why can't I have the combination of three
in a way which is effective?
That's what we do.
So, like, the whole six SKU thing
I was talking about earlier,
our whole play was,
we're not going to be a Minimalist.
We're not gonna be a Plum or a Mamaearth.
-We're not gonna do the whole thing.
-Assortment, yeah.
We're gonna do one serum
with twelve serums in it,
with an expert who does it for you.
We're gonna do one evening ritual.
For the mom on the go,
for the college student,
for the one who doesn't have time
for a 12-step skincare routine.
-And I think--
-That's very progressive, actually.
And we did this already
two and a half years ago,
where everybody was only buying
the 700-rupee vitamin C from Ordinary
or this,
and I'm like,
"Wait, they're gonna get there."
At one point, 'cause we saw it
in the West as well,
it was The Ordinary that led the way,
and then it was the Drunk Elephants.
-It was the...
-Youth To The People.
Youth To The People,
all the other brands that
really brought them together,
that people are like,
"Okay, one, that's it,
I don't need anything else."
And this is moving
even into makeup, right?
So, you want skinification of makeup,
so, anything to--
You don't want to put anything
on your skin that harms it.
So, skincare ingredients
in makeup products,
and layered with an SPF.
So, imagine that you're just putting that
one product on the go.
So if I don't have time,
but I'm coming here.
And I just have that one product.
-It should do the job.
-Everything for me.
It moisturises my skin.
It protects me from the sun.
And it allows me to have
a good amount of coverage,
my "no makeup" look.
Yeah, multi-purpose, multi-active--
-On the go.
That's what the consumer wants.
Do you think the next wave
could be that, in my bathroom,
I have three bottles.
One which says morning,
one that says afternoon,
-one that says...
-Afternoon, what do you need for?
Yeah, then two bottles?
-Two, yeah.
-Yeah?
And sunscreen.
So, the two bottles would be
like your actives, like your serums.
The morning will have the sunscreen.
Okay, fine. Then you're fine, yeah.
You can put the sunscreen
together with it.
Another big trend in Gen Z, I think,
is also around stress management.
So, skincare, like skinification of hair,
for example.
A skincare that helps you sleep better.
It's hugely-- Like, magnesium roll-ons
have, like, exploded.
-It helps you sleep better.
-Is that like a...
-Sleep well, clean gut and great skin.
-...dramatising something?
I mean, I could eat
the magnesium pill as well, but...
Yeah. So, great skin...
There's some studies shown
that the magnesium
is absorbed by, like, skin
better than your gut,
takes it away or something.
There were some studies.
I think doctors would still say
you can do the pills.
I take the pills, but indeed,
magnesium lotion, magnesium oil,
and magnesium... because, apparently,
it gets into your bloodstream
more from your skin.
Isn't that more a magnesium thing
than a skincare thing?
-Where did magnesium come from?
-Yeah.
Two, three years ago,
nobody spoke about it.
But, for example,
if you're building a fragrance brand,
a pillow fragrance would be
a very critical new-age skincare.
-Like a lavender.
-That helps you...
I've had, like, sleep fragrances.
You never remember to use them, right?
I don't feel like it's a habit.
It's not like brushing your teeth.
-But you keep it on your bedside.
-It's just one of those products
that's great to have,
but you never use it.
Every hotel gives it to you now.
But how often do you actually use it?
-That's very true.
-It's a habit. If one friend uses it...
Or if your girlfriend-- Like, something--
I also feel we do,
because we don't use it.
You use products
that others can see you use.
-No, no.
-Or there's some effect of it.
You'll feel it. You'll feel it.
-Would you feel?
-Yeah.
With the lavender spray, you sleep better?
-Oh, magnesium is really improving.
-What about the lavender spray?
Lavender spray, I don't know.
But magnesium will...
-Magnesium works, yeah.
-I'm using my morning serum,
whatever is in this one bottle
which has everything.
That's the indē wild vitamin C.
You need that one.
[Bhakti] But then you still need
a moisturiser.
It has everything together.
It has vitamin C.
It has moisturiser. It has sunscreen.
Niacinamide, hyaluronic acid, everything.
-All in one bottle.
-So you've got moisture,
brightening, acne...
You can be creative with the bottle.
Maybe the bottle has three sections.
-You go one, two, three or something.
-Oh, cool.
Or like a triphasic
that you mix and like...
-Mix it and...
-Yeah.
So, say form factor can change
of the bottle.
Yeah. Yeah.
But again, these are all areas
which are category-creating,
and hence, community matters.
Right.
So. I think the trend,
the next wave you were asking,
skin-minimalism, definitely.
[Bhakti] Skinification of makeup.
I think nostalgia is not really a trend,
but I think it will always
come back in life.
Whether it's fashion,
whether it's beauty.
I think we, as human beings,
go after things we know.
There is a familiarity.
There is something that's familiar,
but then, something that's new
is the best way we digest it.
Like, if you look at music,
the remixes of really old songs
with something new are the ones
we immediately are like,
"Oh, that is... I like this."
-Gen Z is getting in ghazals now.
-It feels familiar.
-Exactly.
-It's insane.
There are, like, so many Instagram singers
who are not getting into, like,
Mehdi Hassan and I was like,
"Wow, that's-- that's incredible."
And I think if you can
package nostalgia and identity
and India pride-ness, again,
I'm going to say that.
But for a new India and for the world,
I think that is the next big wave.
-For sure.
-That's very well put.
-And minimalism.
-Yeah, that I already said.
Nostalgia, minimalism.
Okay, I'm now taking notes.
-Nostalgia, minimalism.
-He's like... my next brand.
-We're getting into it.
-I also think
there's a huge pick up of microtrends.
So, that's changed
every three to six months.
So, brands that kind of catch on to that,
or figure a way
of how to catch on to that trend,
then you show the product
in a different light.
For example, glass skin, right?
-So, that came out of Korea.
-Korean, right?
Yeah. But it's not... It's just that--
That's all the Korean brands,
even if they were not talking about it,
or brands that are inspired
by Korean ingredients
started using that trend as a viral moment
to resell their product.
The same product that has,
as she said, repackaged and sold.
You're talking about the mob-wife look.
-If I go to Korea...
-Yeah.
...I find a person
-willing to white label...
-Yeah.
...and bring back
a whole bunch of products.
Because this is a country
with better skin and not a celebrity,
so, they're probably being
a bit more honest,
-will it work in India?
-Yes, it will.
-[Diipa] Brands are doing it.
-It will be too expensive.
-Brands are doing it.
-I don't know.
ClayCo, d'you, right?
I think they're all Korean-inspired.
They're all Indian wrappers
in Korean brands?
-d'you is--
-So, what they do, like,
the best way to-- I don't know.
I think there's two
differentiations, right?
So, you're using...
You're getting Korean...
-Manufacturers.
-You're getting brands made--
manufactured in Korea
without any of the Korean inspiration.
Or you're using Korean-origin ingredients,
and then packaging it as a Korean brand,
getting glass skin and then--
What if I'm just taking
a Korean product...
-Yeah.
-...putting a different wrapper on it
-and selling it in India?
-It's 90% water.
Why will you transport it all the way?
-[Diipa] It's not...
-It will work.
It's about product, right?
I mean, my lip balm,
the main ingredient is ghee,
but I'm making it in Korea. Why?
Because they are--
The texture and the sensorialism
in their ingredients is far superior...
No, but I think he's saying,
"I'll just get a Korean product."
So, Korean brand, and then...
What I'm saying is,
it will work because they're--
I think they're manufacturing--
At this point,
I think India is coming up there.
Like, our manufacturing is getting better.
But, at this point,
Korea has certain textures and ingredients
in the way they mix it together--
-They are far ahead of the game.
-Yeah.
-So, I think that just--
-We can't mix Korean beauty here in India?
-Yes, you can.
-[Diipa] You can.
But I think we're talking
from a quality perspective,
from technology perspective,
from innovation perspective, right?
-Hygiene...
-Innovation is huge here.
I think what they're saying is...
Can you make a Ferrari in India?
-Yes. But it won't be Ferrari, right?
-Wow.
But Ferrari and beauty is very different.
No, it sounds complicated.
Like, beauty is not...
Beauty is not just mixing things
in a pot and doing it.
Like, there's so many emulsifiers,
so many steps.
Like, you've got to cool it,
you've got to heat it.
And then, I think,
the way Korean chemists, specifically,
the manufacturing,
I think you can still do in India
because you can reverse engineer
the formula.
But I think the chemists in Korea,
like, the ingredients they use like PDRN,
Like, the salmon sperm.
Salmon sperm is the trendiest ingredient
in skincare today.
-Yeah.
-That came from Korea.
And they literally
create ingredients like that.
And because they have this branding
of having better skincare,
people, as consumers, accept it.
Is it always better? One can argue.
I know someone who got it
injected into his knees
because the logic was
salmon sperm will help...
-Who injected that?
-My brother.
So, we were travelling somewhere recently.
He got it into his knees.
He got an IV into his body.
Did it help?
It put him on a wheelchair
for four or five days.
-Oh, dear.
-Yeah.
So, caution for salmon sperm then.
But there's also a lot
of information out there.
So I think, you know,
it's also about understanding.
That's why going back to experts.
So, while it's all about influencing,
it's also about understanding
what your skin type is, right?
And I think that's something that
I would tell anyone
who's starting a brand there.
Understand who your audience is
and who you're creating for.
So, if it's a concern-based solve,
particularly for skincare,
make sure that you also have experts
who back your brand
or have them as advisors
to kind of tell you
this is the right thing to do.
But I think country, you know,
if you look at different countries,
like, what you started off earlier saying,
that when you look at Italy or Germany,
you know they would have
good colour, good makeup.
You look at France, of course,
French pharmacy,
you already, subconsciously,
are like, French skincare.
-Quality.
-It must be good.
-Yes.
-Like, all the La Roche-Posays
and the Caudalies,
like, they must be good.
Korea is this new one that's come on,
where, subconsciously,
because they have good skin,
we all are like, "They must be good."
India, I think, has that,
globally, for hair.
Yeah.
Anyone thinks of Indians, they're like,
they have some secret to hair...
Great point.
...that the world needs to know.
And that's why even Ayurveda, right?
Like, I think it's so unique to India.
It's the entire lifestyle
that we're kind of, you know,
putting out there and anything
from India about Ayurveda
-really moves the needle.
-[Shantanu] Yeah.
So you're saying a product
that says Indian hair oil
-could do well in the West.
-Yeah.
-For sure.
-Champi.
It does, yeah. And it will.
And I think... I think--
What else are Indians known for?
-Weddings?
-Yoga. Yoga.
Spirituality, wellness.
-I think just their--
-Food?
Their-- their warmth and love for food.
I think that's another one.
-Food's a biggie, yeah.
-Food is huge.
-Bollywood.
-Just colour.
So, we have to build on those things
when we build a brand.
If you want to build a global brand.
Because it's subconscious.
Like, I think, what then...
it's like the winds are behind you
and it's helping you.
Like, with Koreans, any Korean brand
can launch something now.
And we're all like, "Ah, Korean skincare.
Like, let's put it all over us."
So, like, go wear something,
because consumers already
are thinking of you with that.
So, then you don't have to, like,
train them to change their minds.
You're like, "Okay.
Do you think Indians do good haircare?
Here, an exhibit A, my mom,
who has hair down to her ankles,
and she's 63 years old."
-Does she?
-She does. Yeah.
She has really, really long hair.
Um, and so, it's, like,
you give that exhibit.
And, like, the same way
shea butter came from Africa.
Shea Marie is a brand in the US
that sells, like, insane.
It's one of the best
haircare brands there.
And the story is,
the grandmother, on the side of the road,
sold shea butter.
And look at her hair
and how amazing it made.
And that story,
they've kind of built over the last,
I think, two or three decades.
And it's this amazing...
And now, shea butter is really, you know,
the ingredient for moisture.
And you've seen this
happen in India, by the way.
Indians are known for hair.
Also, what else?
Weddings?
-Weddings. We said food.
-Yeah, I think just--
-Animals.
-Their--
-Animals?
-I think, family--
-Tigers?
Whenever I speak to a foreigner
about India,
they have a mental image of,
like, tigers and snakes and all of that.
Elephants?
I think family.
-Like, there's a lot of, like--
-Asian culture.
Asian culture, right?
Warmth, vibrancy, like, just...
-And, yeah. I think...
-Music. Music.
-Music.
-Classical music, yeah.
-Punjabi music also.
-Punjabi music.
And it's stereotyping,
but I feel like India's very vibrant
in terms of its colour palette, right?
So, you always expect an Indian brand
to be colourful.
-I think of, like, Jaipur.
-Yeah.
Like Udaipur. Yeah, yeah. That's true.
Palaces, palatial, that stuff, yeah.
We've actually seen
what she's saying, right?
-Religion.
-New-age brands?
Spirituality.
More than religion, I'd say spirituality.
-Really?
-Yeah.
-Hinduism, yeah.
-Two different things.
We're saying two different things.
I don't think they look at India
purely as Hinduism,
because they don't know
enough about Ganesh
and, like, all of that.
But they look at Indians being
very spiritual people.
We do our morning meditations.
None of us do. But they think we do.
My husband wakes up at 5:45.
He does it?
We're more pious.
Yeah, we're a pious generation.
-Yeah.
-It's not fun, but...
What else?
Because you live there,
you're a better person
to answer this question as well.
This is a funny one.
I always say in my friend group now,
but, of late, CEOs.
It's, like, every multinational
-is an Indian CEO.
-Smarts.
Yeah, intellect. Intellect. Intelligence.
-Education.
-IT. Computer.
Everyone in the West has that
one Indian friend who's highly educated...
Doctors, engineers.
...who's just doing really well
in their career.
-IT, I think.
-So, if I'm building a community,
I should pick something from weddings,
culture, colourful, palaces,
religion, spirituality,
yoga, CEOs, smart,
and build on top of that?
-It's a good start.
-And food.
-I think food.
-Food, don't forget, food bonds us all.
Because food and--
I think even native florals, right?
-There's--
-Food, masala, like that?
-No, I think--
-It's cultural consumption, no?
-Yeah.
-Chicken tikka masala.
Like, that could be a perfume.
Chicken Tikka Masala.
-Dilip?
-Like, Jalebi,
she's launched jalebi
and chai lip balms. So, again...
I wouldn't launch Chicken Tikka Masala.
I'm not sure. That's one of the stuff--
-It doesn't sit right.
-Okay.
Yeah, I think what she said
touched on florals as well, I think.
And maybe the West doesn't know it enough,
but that is something we can scream about.
-Our flowers.
-[Nikhil] Really?
The jasmine, the champaka,
the firangi paani.
Rajnigandha.
-[Bhakti] The rose.
-Rajnigandha.
These are... And they have roots in India.
And I'm not saying
they're only native to India,
but they have
a huge amount of storytelling.
-And history here.
How about temples?
Temple smell?
What if Dilip sells temple scent?
That ittar.
-Phool?
-Phool and ittar.
That Phool thing is used temple flowers.
What if Dilip's perfume brand
is called Temple?
-Cute, I like it.
-Yeah?
Agarbatti is like a very, very...
Makes the house smell aromatic.
Agarbatti needs to be disrupted.
But we're saying
bring back the old in a new way.
Yeah.
So, Temple, maybe,
has a hint of agarbatti somewhere.
The perfume "Temple".
But you can also make it,
"Your body is your temple."
It has camphor.
-Exactly.
-Agarbatti, for example...
And the smell, actually,
is about cleansing the home.
-Mm.
-That's what the Indian home does.
-Sage.
-And camphor's also about, like,
you know, good energy,
and making sure that
you are purifying your space.
Dilip is starting to feel better.
[Diipa] That's great.
Is there a tech play here
to identify which product?
Let's say we are doing morning, night.
There's two products.
Morning has sunscreen,
plus moisturiser, plus niacinamide,
plus vitamin C.
-Night has... peptides...
-Magnesium.
...magnesium and retinol?
-[Bhakti] Yeah.
-Okay.
-Good.
-And if we combine--
If we have two bottles in the bathroom,
A, I would love that,
'cause it removes so much clutter.
Is there a tech play to figure out
Diipa's morning is different
from Nikhil's morning?
And Bhakti's night is different
from Shantanu's?
-Using AI?
-[Nikhil] Using anything. AI.
If you have enough data, for sure.
Just about taking a picture of your face
and asking a genetic AI to tell you
which product to use.
Which, either pick
morning one or morning two.
I mean, there's a lot of advances in that.
My only concern with that then is,
are you going to the model
of hyper-personalisation?
Because then, operationally,
I don't know how that's going to work.
That's what we were saying, right?
It's just too many
permutations, combinations.
What if you only have three SKUs?
Three mornings and three nights?
-Okay. Then, it can work.
-One is right for me.
-One is right for her.
-Then you come on the website.
You come on the website,
-you show--
-Give you a quiz.
Take a photo, do a quiz,
give your details.
No quiz, nothing, no questions.
-Just photo?
-Just photo.
That's fine as well. We can tell you...
There's skin analysers that'll tell you...
The thing with that is you're not
giving it your environment.
Are you hot, humid, cold?
Are you living in Canada?
You can add that layer as well.
I can figure out your location.
No, you can take a--
You can put in your location.
-So, just one picture.
-Yeah.
So, you walk into a website,
one picture that you take there.
And then, you say
morning two is right for you
and night three is right for you.
Send it. Done.
And age, the picture has to calculate?
Because the physical age
does not matter with skin age.
-If you have three SKUs...
-And you can do a try-before-you-buy.
Saying, "Okay, try it, if you like it,
I mean, and you, uh...
You know, you pre-book it.
If you don't like it,
you can send it back to me
and I'll give you your money back."
-Wow, Bhakti.
-So you can absolutely do that.
I'm just saying, for a brand--
Because a brand, Il Makiage,
has just done this.
So, they have the try-before-you-buy.
And they've also built their tech platform
called Oddity
which is all about, again,
really predicting what shade
will match you.
So, they, sometimes,
will send you three shades.
In colour, I see this work very well
because now you have lipstick try-ons.
-You have...
-Virtual try-ons.
Everything in colour.
But even with skincare,
because if you have tech
that's good enough to kind of
give you at least 96 to 98% accuracy.
If they can indeed, like,
zoom in and analyse, "Oh, he has pores,
or he has under-eye circles
or he has acne,
then he needs these and these ingredients.
Or he looks a bit older, so he needs
more, like, peptides and that stuff."
And we can change the form factor
of the bottle to have 1, 2, 3.
-Yeah.
-So you put 1 on, then 2 on, then 3 on.
-You love your 1, 2, 3.
-1, 2.
No, but if you're gonna have fewer SKUs...
I hate looking at clutter,
and each time I go into my bathroom...
But if you have fewer SKUs,
then you don't need tech.
I think the juice
is not worth the squeeze at all.
No, he's saying tech so that the customer
knows what they should know.
He basically doesn't want
to interact with anyone.
-[Nikhil] Yes.
-He's like, "This is it."
No, but that,
the customer will figure it out.
The tech is when what she's saying is--
No, customer figuring out is very hard.
-How will the customer figure it out?
-I don't know what I should use.
The brand has three SKUs.
They'll figure it out.
[Diipa] But, for sure,
how would a customer know?
You believe the customer knows everything.
If they don't have any information...
Can I tell you?
I have no clue what is good for my skin.
You knew peptides, though.
Yeah.
But I have no clue what I should use,
when I should use,
if something is right for me.
If you want to solve that problem,
then you can't have a three-SKU business.
-Sorry?
-You can't have a three-SKU business.
-Why?
-Because you're super-blending everything.
We are not believing
that this is the right product.
Your premise is, "I'm gonna
mix everything and give it to you."
And then, you're like,
"Okay, I've mixed everything..."
-Choose one.
-I think what he is saying is...
Not every active ingredient...
He's saying one becomes
a supersonic brightening one.
One becomes a supersonic anti-ageing one.
One becomes a supersonic acne one.
And then, people whose skin
is more prone to one or the other...
-They'll know, no?
-...they get that.
-How will they know all this?
-The acne guy will know.
-I don't know.
-You don't have acne. You don't need it.
We're also super-simplifying it.
I don't think you can have three SKUs.
One element that we are also missing
is, while all of this is great,
consumers, today, still buy 80% of beauty
for the first time in a store,
in an offline environment,
because the emotional touch-feel factor
is still so huge in beauty, right?
That you want to--
80%? That's a shocking stat.
By 2028, beauty will be 33% online
and 67% offline.
But the trend is going more online.
It is, but I feel like offline
will still dominate significantly.
-There will still be a healthy mix--
-I think for first purchase.
First purchase.
Second purchase is definitely online.
But that's why offline is moving
to being all about experiences.
It's all about experiential marketing.
It's all about creating your stores
as experience centres.
Because for people who travel a lot,
like, I travel incessantly.
I've been travelling
for the last three months.
I'm not going to carry
ten bottles with me.
-But minis, you can carry...
-But we agree.
Skin-minimalism is the thing.
-I think also for supplements.
-Yeah.
I'm not going to carry ten boxes of...
Like what AG1... Do you know AG1?
What AG1 did with supplementation
was phenomenal.
Like, I was waiting
for that my whole life.
And now, Perelel is another supplement
brand in the US, UV-backed as well.
And they put all your supplements
in one packet.
So, it's, like...
You just have to open the packet
and just take it in the morning.
Or why not even in one pill?
I think because active ingredients
can interact with each other.
Like an omega-3 is oil-based,
but, like, vitamin C is a powder-base.
Yeah.
-But I think simplifying time...
-Yeah.
...and simplifying life by optimising
for time is a great idea.
Bathroom break?
I think they want it. I can take one.
-Yeah, I don't mind.
-Take a bathroom break.
-You guys hungry?
I like your tattoos. What do they say?
So, my job is that of a trader
in the stock market. It's my primary job.
So, "delay gratification" is a reminder
not to sell stuff fast,
which I tend to do a lot.
Without the tattoo, you would forget?
-[Bhakti] Be patient.
-I don't remember with the tattoo, so...
"Be here now" is not...
I have a tendency to procrastinate.
I spent a lot of my life thinking
what will happen five years from now,
ten years from now. That.
This says, "Do unto others as you would
have others do unto you."
Which I feel like is a simple model,
if you had to pick one to live by.
And this is my handwriting.
I like that. And all together
or in different moments in life?
-Different moments in life.
-That's really nice.
Very cool.
And the date of when I got it
is also there.
See, this is 2013.
Very cool.
-Do you have tattoos?
-Yeah, a bunch.
This one is the funniest.
Back then, tattoos used to be quite thick.
Now you can make them
really thin and beautiful.
But these are bleeding
a little into each other.
But it's Roman,
and it's like a conversation starter.
Every time someone is like,
"What does your tattoo say?"
I'm like, "Decode it."
But it basically is Roman numerals
for the letter G,
it's the 11th letter in the alphabet.
R-I-T.
So, when I was in my
final year in high school,
I did a thesis on
what makes people successful.
I think it was my social psychology
class or something.
I was obsessed with
how do people become successful?
What is it that makes them
different from everybody else?
And long story short,
the end answer was grit.
That, whether you have money or not,
whether you're beautiful or not,
whether you have the right people,
if you just have grit,
that was a common denominator
in every successful person.
And so, I was like,
"I need to tattoo that."
What is the biggest thing
you have going for you?
Why is Diipa successful?
"Why is Diipa successful?"
Can I have multiple answers?
One.
Grit.
In the face of adversity?
Yeah.
Adversity being?
I mean, as an entrepreneur, as a founder,
you're hit with, like, the velocity
and the amount of shit
that hits you on a daily basis,
and whether it's rejections
or noes or things not working out.
And a good founder and entrepreneur
is the one who's able to take that
and come on the other side
over and over and over again.
Even when you think, "Finally,
I'm on the other side, the sun is shining,
the sales are great,
something else will come around."
So, I think people
who can really withstand that
will end up being good entrepreneurs,
according to me.
-And pre-entrepreneurship?
-Pre-entrepreneurship...
I think I just really wanted to be
somebody that did something with her life.
I wanted to be-- like, leave a mark.
I know it sounds a bit cliché,
but my biggest fear was to die ordinary.
I'm like, "What if... what if I don't
become an anybody or nobody?"
Like, you get this one life
to live, make it count.
You know, so that was something
that always kept me going as a child.
Make sure you do something worthwhile.
Make sure your life means something.
And make sure it also means
something bigger than yourself.
Interesting.
Digressing from our subject for a second,
you didn't tell us about
how you started Tira.
And you didn't finish
what happened after McKinsey.
Maybe we do a little bit of your lives.
-[Bhakti] Yeah.
-You want to go first?
Okay. So, I had nothing to do with beauty.
I started, you know...
did my undergrad in
psychology and communication,
graduated and got my first job at Macy's.
-Cool.
-But, as a management trainee,
and then in fashion, you weren't really
going to get anything post your OPT.
So, my dad was like,
"Come home and figure it out."
So, I had no plan.
I think I've always kind of been,
I like to say, good at many things,
and, you know,
I was average at a lot of things.
I was good at a lot of things.
And I think I was always
trying to find that one purpose,
that kind of, you know,
what is it that will make me feel,
"Oh, wow, I've got it as well."
You know, because you
keep looking at other people,
and everyone has something about them
or they know what they want to do.
And I think it can't be easy
having a dad like your dad.
Yeah. But I don't think...
I feel the opposite is true.
-Yeah.
-It can or it can't be easy?
I think it depends on the kid.
The unhappiest people I know
are people who have these really,
really large figures as their parents
because happiness is always relative.
And you get your validation when you
get something beyond what they have.
-But--
-And if you start at that scale,
like, I could have gone from A to B
and got validated.
She has to go from Z to Z-plus.
-Yeah.
-But I don't think... I...
What I liked about my childhood was,
yeah, I grew up
in a conservative household.
My parents were strict, you know.
Follow deadlines.
I wasn't allowed to be out till 1:00 a.m.
My dad always opened the door.
Even, you know, didn't have the keys
to my house, even when I grew up.
But I think that the one thing
that I am very grateful for
is that I grew up without pressure.
I grew up--
Sweet, but that's probably
because people were trying to kidnap you.
[laughter]
Okay, but go ahead...
[Diipa] KGB.
I think that's what...
That trend has kind of followed me.
I graduated and then came here,
and as a 21-year-old,
was very enamoured with
this whole retail side, right?
And Reliance Brands had just started up.
And my first ever gig was when...
Darshan told me, he's like,
"Okay, you want to work in retail,
then you need to know how to sell."
So, my first job was selling shoes
on the Timberland's store-front.
He said, "You will be allowed
to enter my office after you want to...
after you've actually sold something."
And I was like, "Okay, cool, I'll do it."
So I've done the...
the six-to-eight-month...
shopfront associate, sales associate job,
when I was selling Timberland shoes,
and in Mumbai,
where the weather is completely
not accustomed to selling winter wear.
And I learnt something.
I learnt this one rule
from my boss at that time,
where he said that
it's a rule in the retail industry
that for-- particularly for footwear,
so if someone's coming to buy...
buy one pair of shoes,
you bring out three for them.
Because if you don't--
They don't like that one,
you sell them,
you make them try the other two.
-That's very good.
-So, it was a three-box rule.
And, for me,
I remember I told my sister, my dad,
that, "Oh, we're having
an end-of-season sale."
And my mom and him came and they bought
that one pair of shoes just to...
it was that, that really, also,
again, validated that...
To that 21-year-old, meant a lot,
because for me, that was like, "Oh, wow,
I've done that thing for myself."
And then, I worked in retail
for about, I had...
You're talking about
having this larger than life...
figure.
I think I used--
I turned that as an opportunity.
I got access to opportunity,
and I never took it to waste.
I believed that I had access,
and I really, really used it.
I feel like I've overcompensated,
at times.
I would sometimes be
the last one to stay back,
and I wanted to always prove
that I could do it.
And, at some point, I just embraced it,
"Yes, this is who I am,
and I'm going to make use of everything
that I have and I'm going to do it."
I didn't know what I was
going to do when I was 21,
but I worked through multiple roles
and I still was figuring it out.
I worked in fashion for eight years.
I did buying, I worked at AJIO,
and when I got married
after working in Reliance Brands
for about five years,
I moved to AJIO and I did
something completely different,
which was inventory planning.
My boss at that time asked me that,
"Yes, you can do marketing
or do something completely different
and learn inventory planning."
So I learnt all about
couponing, discounting,
how do you manage inventory,
how do you look at...
how do you calculate everything
when it comes to e-commerce?"
I learnt the basics then.
And I think I'm grateful
for the opportunities
and also the people that I met
through that time to kind of...
kind of give me that confidence that,
"Okay, I got a varied...
just multitudes of opportunity
that I would have not gotten."
I'm so grateful, super grateful for that.
And after that,
I was in fashion for so many years.
I was like, that's when that,
"Oh, I want to do something on my own."
I believed that I could do a lot more.
And I was like, "Okay, I want to now
get out and do my own thing."
And I was like, "Okay, I think
I want to go to school again."
I always thought that I wanted to go back
to school and do something
that was completely different
from what I had done.
And I wanted to then
be in the fashion space.
I applied to Parsons for their AAS degree,
which is for people
who want to change careers.
So, I had friends who were lawyers,
who were doctors,
who all wanted to get
into the fashion space.
So, you basically take a four-year course,
condense it into a two-year course.
And I got married, moved to Bangalore.
And after one year, I decided just
to move to New York for two years.
So, I did long-distance marriage
and studied for those two years,
purely out of passion to--
wanting to build something for myself.
It really works, no?
Long-distance marriage.
It's great.
I think that I give so much credit
to my husband, my partner, Tejas,
because I think that there was no
conversation about, "You are allowed,"
which, you know, kind of stems,
these conversation stems.
"Yeah, I'm allowing you to go.
You should do this."
It was always like, "You want to do this?"
"Let's figure it out,
and you have my entire support."
So, I think that kind of set the bar
for me on what I expected.
And I think that...
I don't think my parents ever asked me
once that, "Are you guys okay?"
Just purely out of when anyone saw.
And it's not like we didn't have
our fair share of fights and quarrels.
But never for a moment did trust walk out.
And he knew, he's like,
"You made the move to Bangalore for me,
and it's only fair that I do that for you
because you want to do this."
Because, imagine, if he had to go to MBA,
it would be easy that,
"Oh, Bhakti will go with him."
No one would say anything.
If it's the opposite...
and people still gave him a lot of credit,
which I do as well.
But I also went, right?
So, that kind of gets lost
in the whole process.
But I think we've kind of been okay
with letting that limelight go.
But I think... Then when it was COVID,
we lived in New York for one year
after my two-year degree
because I was like,
"Okay, I'm not coming back.
I have a couple of more months at school."
And he took the last flight out
and came to New York
and we were stuck in the pandemic
for an entire year.
And it was the best time that we had
in our bubble, just figuring it out.
That was that one year where I did
not work since I started working.
And I was like,
"Okay, what do I want to do?"
I wanted to, at that point,
start my own athleisure brand.
So, I was making all my plans,
speaking to my dad, saying, "Okay, great."
So, putting all my plans together.
And plans never go
the way they're meant to.
I moved back to India and I started again,
working a little bit
on the design side with Trends
because the entire fashion and lifestyle
business is in Bangalore.
So, I was trying to see how I could
actually put my skills to... test.
So, I was working on
designing a small collection,
and then beauty just happened
to be a conversation
that I was part of as a consumer.
And then, it was... Nothing was planned.
I had to... I remember having
this conversation with Isha
where I told her, I said,
"I'm just going to--
I'll be around and I definitely
want to do my own thing."
She's like, "Yeah, of course,
you go ahead and it'll all work out."
And that was the plan.
And then, there was no set moment.
It was... We named Tira together.
We had about two days
to name Tira together.
I know that me and her
have this Google sheet
where we came up with names
like Sorbet, Blush.
-And then...
-Why Tira?
That's what... I'll get to that.
And then, and it was
such a easy flow in that...
We started from there.
So, we named it Tira because we were
thinking of what are some of the best...
the genesis of some of the most
powerful brand names?
And if you think there's Nike,
which is from Greek mythology.
Nike is a goddess of power.
Sephora is from the goddess Zephyrus.
So, everything was rooted.
These brands were
rooted in Greek mythology.
So, we're like, "We're in India.
We have so much history, so much culture.
Let's go back to Hindu mythology."
And then we looked up
some of the Indian goddesses
and goddess Rati, who is the goddess
of love, passion, and beauty.
And we're like, can we make...
Tira is an anagram of goddess Rati.
And the entire idea
is that when any person
looks at themselves in the mirror,
they see...
Every person has a unique superpower
because goddesses have superpowers.
And that unique superpower on the inside
helps you feel beautiful in the outside.
-And Tira celebrates that superpower.
-[Diipa] That's beautiful.
So, I think...
And we didn't use an agency.
You light up when you speak about Tira.
It's so nice.
Why didn't you keep it Rati?
And why did you change it around?
-I think it's also...
-[Diipa] It's somewhat modern.
Yeah. We wanted to also let...
We were making it for the Indian consumer,
but also for the--
We wanted to be a global retailer
for the Indian consumer.
I think we were both...
I think the beauty of it is that we always
looked at the brand as consumers of beauty
and what we wanted the Indian...
what we wanted to have
that shopping experience in India.
So, every decision we made
was from that perspective versus
saying, "Okay, let's look at what else
is happening out in India."
I think that gave such a fresh perspective
to what we were trying to do at Tira.
What's cool about Bhakti also,
whenever we run into each other
in a function,
I gravitate towards her and her husband,
and I hang out with them.
I couldn't quite put my finger on why,
but if I asked the question I asked her
to people in her shoes,
nine out of ten would be
masking insecurity
with some form of ego saying,
"I did this."
It takes a certain amount of...
evolution to not do that.
Compliment her father, then her husband
and place credit elsewhere
and not take any.
-[Bhakti] Thank you.
-Which is nice.
I don't know how to take that,
but thank you.
The Rati-Tira story,
I think more people should hear about it.
-It's really beautiful.
-Thank you.
That happened without an agency
and our tagline is "Tira for every you."
So, we're not... When we spoke about
beauty is self-expression.
I think, for us,
it's celebrating every journey,
every part of your beauty journey
and also just kind of alluding to the fact
that wherever you are in your life,
even if it's a bad time,
we got you and we want to celebrate
that version of you.
We don't want you to evolve.
We want you to be in that moment
'cause we are with you.
And I think that kind of came from,
as women, what we feel on a daily basis.
That we want someone to just tell us,
"You are enough."
And I think that really
is very personal to me.
And I would like to also...
if we're talking about, like, what...
why Tira is so special
to both Isha and I...
I think from a perspective of championing
what women leaders can be,
and beauty is a space
where we've been able to do that.
We have 60% women leaders and we have
one of the highest diversity ratios.
We have... I have 100% success rate
in women having every...
anyone who comes to Tira has a baby,
goes into their maternity leave
and comes back.
And I think we've... I'm so happy.
I didn't know that I was
so passionate about it.
But when I started this,
I saw what a difference we made
to women leaders,
and when people were coming back
from maternity,
taking a break and coming back
and seeing those leaders and the kind of
hunger they have has just been...
an unknowing success that
I feel more proud of than anything else.
That we've been able to do that.
And I understood the power of, like...
When so many women come together,
what they can put together.
So I think that has been
the most special part about Tira,
that it has this amazing energy,
that there's everyone
who kind of wants to do something.
Like, they also want to find themselves
and prove themselves.
And I think that has resonated
a lot with me.
If I build my brand, Dilip the Fragrance
or me with morning and night
skincare product,
-how do I pitch?
-Is that going to be Nikhil Kamath's line?
-Yeah, why not?
-[Diipa] Morning and night, yeah.
How do I pitch it to you?
To Tira, particularly?
I think that the one thing that
we, at Tira,
in terms of our mission and vision,
we've said that we want to be
affordable yet aspirational,
and whether we're selling
a 200-rupee lipstick
or a 2,000-rupee lipstick,
we want the consumer...
consumer experience to be premium.
So, whether it's the UI-UX
that's clutter-free
or whether it's not really throwing
the constant
discounting in your face
or leading with education,
having an editorial approach.
I think that has really been
a differentiator for us.
I think when it comes to a brand,
particularly homegrown brands,
we want to champion them.
For us, it would mean
that have a good brand story,
have a solid product, and...
we really enjoy working with founders
as well.
So, I think, for us, it would be...
for me, particularly,
would be to have great product
and fit into that ecosystem.
So, we're not being picky about a brand.
I feel like if you're entering
into the brand,
even if you're a young brand,
we would definitely want to work with you.
-How do I reach out to you?
-You email us.
So, the number of people who reach out
to me on LinkedIn is also insane.
And even if I can't reply,
I will connect you
to the merchandising team.
And they, at least, have the convos.
There will be times
when you've not reached a certain scale
and you're just starting to distribute.
Sometimes, that,
you can also get lost in the entire...
the number of brands that we have.
So, I think when you've got a little,
when you just started,
I think it's gained
a little bit of traction,
like, we've worked with very small brands.
Like, we spoke about ClayCo.
You know, I think it's about discovery.
You want to have more brands
to lead discovery.
And I feel like, as a platform with scale,
it is a little bit of our duty
to kind of also set that platform.
So, I think, for us, it's important.
So, as long as you're a brand
with solid product...
Is there a product
you're looking for right now?
The odds would be higher if I build that?
No, I don't think so.
See, we're a retailer.
We want to be able to give
the variety to the audience.
-[Diipa] That's your job.
-Yeah, that's your job.
I think what our job is to make sure that
your brand is going to the right consumer.
So, we spoke about hyper-personalisation.
So, if I understand who my consumer is,
and if that consumer is your consumer,
then I'm doing right by you.
And then it makes sense for you to list
with me. And then I would want you.
So, I think, for us, it is about
having a large portfolio of brands,
but also then making sure
that the right brand is going
to the right...
we're connecting to the right consumer.
That is all about the personalisation.
If I build my morning and night,
one form factor which does it all...
Correct.
...and I build a tech layer on top of it
which is housed in Tira, for example,
and it does really well,
at some point, won't Bhakti think,
"Why don't I just do this myself?"
Yes.
-Naturally.
-Absolutely. Naturally.
But that's a disincentive for me
to then sell on Tira, right?
No, I don't think so.
I think, first and foremost,
we are a retailer, right?
So, I think that we will always make sure
that we will always support the brand
and if we are getting into something,
it's great for the consumer
because you are giving the consumer choice
and they can decide what they want to.
I think it's pure retail.
So, I don't think it's about...
There's so many different ways now
of working with brands.
There's collaborations,
there's exclusivity.
So, if you tell me
that I'm going to be exclusive to you,
and, you know, we get into...
I make money off your brand,
then I'm like, "Great."
Because it also takes
that much amount of time and effort
to create another brand.
So, I would also want to create a brand
in a wide space that I know
is going to win quickly.
You guys have done that, right?
With a few of the celebrities,
and also the recent Ayurvedic one.
Just launched a brand called Puraveda.
Are celebrity brands working?
I think that...
I think they are working, yes.
But I feel like not the way
they were working in the past.
I think that you need to have
solid product.
You need to still have...
You need to have that hook
that links you to the consumer today.
It's not just about slapping your photo
on a product.
Those days are gone.
You need to be able to connect
with the consumers.
The consumer buys the product
for you and also for the quality.
So, you need to have story...
a very strong storyline that depicts
what you kind of stand for,
and they take a little bit
of your thought, a piece of you,
or something that you stand for.
So, it is very important
for a celebrity to be authentic.
I think... Exactly.
-The entitlement that sometimes...
-Is moved away.
...really famous people have.
If I just promote something,
it should be fine.
I think that has really, really shifted
because we've all mentioned
consumers are very smart today.
They want value, they want quality,
they want good ingredients
and just slapping a celebrity face
doesn't cut it anymore.
-There's so many--
-Which brand are you thinking of?
I'm not going to mention the name.
I'm not going to mention the name,
but there are so many
celebrity brands in India that...
I think I know which you are thinking of.
-And globally.
-And globally, of course,
that have started and then,
if you're just not into it enough,
like, for example,
if you come on and somebody...
You're doing a live or you're doing
a video and somebody is like,
"What ingredients does your product have?"
And you're like,
"Oh, my moisturiser moisturises."
We're not dumb.
We can see you don't know enough about it.
And then, you ask another founder
who really is deeply involved,
whether that's Rare Beauty,
whether that's Fenty.
You could literally wake them up
in the middle of the night
and be like, 'What is the name
of your blush and shade?
"What ingredient does it have?"
I think they're so deeply... For me, 100%.
Like, I would know, for sure,
anything you ask me,
even the name of our warehouse
in the US or UK or whatever.
I would know those things,
because we're so deeply involved
and I think they see that.
They see that involvement.
They see that love and they see that care.
And I think that translates to sales.
And if a celebrity can do that,
it still works.
If they cannot because they're really busy
being actresses
or influencers or whatever else,
then I don't think it works.
What are some of the examples
of celebrity brands that have worked?
-And what did they get right?
-Not necessarily in beauty. Anything.
India.
Latest one I really like is Underneat.
What is Underneat?
Underneat is Kusha Kapila's
lingerie brand.
SuperYou by Ranveer.
Very good start. Very good start.
What celebrity should start what brand?
What celebrity should start what--
Give me a name.
-Shah Rukh Khan.
-[all] Fragrance.
100%.
Fragrance.
-100%.
-We all said it.
We will all invest in it.
So, me, Dilip, should try and pitch him
to be the partner.
Oh, for sure. Give him 30%.
That's half your job done.
For sure.
And get Prashanth to invest in it.
Your two crores gets to 25,
and you're home.
-So, Prashanth, the friend you met.
-[Diipa] Yeah.
He founded a venture capital
company called Accel.
Oh.
So, they have been the first cheque in...
Flipkart.
Flipkart, Swiggy, Ola.
All the tech companies.
I think we spoke to them. Yeah.
Very good. Very savvy investors.
I think even they are looking
at some beauty brands.
He would have had some insights.
-MyGlamm.
-That's not doing too well.
-MyGlamm is...
I think the Kardashians
are amazing examples
of what it means to create a brand.
-But also--
-[Nikhil] Everything.
What I find they are also really good at
is even if something fails,
they just push it under the rug
and start the next one.
Yeah. They don't care about failure.
They are like, "Okay, that didn't work.
Fine. Let's start the next one."
SKIMS. I think Kim has...
She lives, breathes,
and really, really buys into...
-Who?
-SKIMS.
SKIMS has again taken not just beauty,
taken a category and really--
But again, I think we need
to mention the operator.
Emma Grede... And like the product.
Like, the product of SKIMS is phenomenal.
-Is it?
-[Bhakti] Yeah.
So, people come back for it.
I think celebrity influencers were
a great, like, trampoline, like I said.
-But the product will bring you back.
-I agree with you.
The marketing, the branding, the product.
-Product is still king, right?
-Yeah.
If you don't have product,
you can build a brand,
but you are not really going to--
-You won't have any repeat.
-Yeah. Exactly.
But I think, in beauty,
both Rare and Fenty are, I think,
gold standards for being able to--
-Rhode.
But I still think
when it comes to a storytelling...
I think that Rare
with the mental health impact
and Rihanna with inclusivity and diversity
and really championing
those two causes has made it...
-Absolutely.
-It's gone beyond the founder.
So, now that cause and the brand
has gotten related.
The singular thing
that creates a community.
Yes. And they have built communities.
And that's what I think has driven it.
They have made themselves
relevant as people,
moved away from the celebrity status
and kind of championed something
that is core to all of us.
And I think that is what they've sold.
And I think that's what a lot of
Indian celebrities have seen,
where they're like...
after their relevance as a pop star
or as an actress died out,
they're still staying relevant
with the business,
"Let's do it, too."
And I think that's the wrong intention
to start a business
just for the... "Oh, I'll be in the buzz
and I'll make a quick buck."
But I think if you truly start for,
like we said, with the cause, the why.
What was my first question to you?
What's your why?
If that's really strong, then the business
will become bigger than you.
-It will sustain.
-Yeah.
I think HRX did a very good job
because I think Hrithik was involved.
-[Bhakti] Yeah, HRX.
-I think the product was good,
and I think the distribution with Myntra
was outstanding.
They did such a good job with that brand.
-HRX is a good celebrity brand.
-Yeah.
Yeah.
So, I have to figure out the product first
and then find the celebrity.
And then the distribution.
Coming to you with the brand.
It's going to be Nikhil123.
-Dilip123.
-[Diipa] Yeah.
What was your why?
You just spoke about "why".
My why was truly to create
India's first global beauty brand
and to be on the shelves of Sephora
that I never saw growing up.
It was all French brands,
it was all American brands,
and I didn't feel seen in that.
And I think creating a brand
with so much pride
from where we come from
and being able to stand on those
global shelves is uncharted territory,
and, honestly,
freaks the shit out of me to do it.
It really does,
to really take on the US market
which is a beast of a beauty market,
with sitting next to brands
like all these ones that we mentioned
But that is the why.
It's like we need to build something
from our country
that can do that and truly be global.
And have that... like,
have us Indians be proud of our skin,
our skin type, our ingredients,
and everything that we come from.
If I were to ask you "Why?"
enough number of times,
and you don't have a filter on,
you'll go back to first principles?
Identity?
My own identity?
Perhaps.
Yeah.
But, in that, mirrored the identity
of the community that I built, I think.
Ultimately, yes,
I'm really proud of it too,
and I think there's definitely
an identity piece there,
but I think it just makes...
It's a national pride, in a way, as well.
And I think the community of the women
that I've built so far together,
I think we've all had these very clear
friction points where...
I think I told Bhakti when I was first
pitching indē wild to her as well.
It's like there's this-- On the one hand,
we love where we come from.
We love being Indian.
We love our food, the culture,
all the lists that we made. We love it.
But, at the same time,
we're not our mums and grandmothers.
We're modern Indian women
who want to talk about sex if we do,
we want to, like, stay with somebody
before we marry them.
We believe in science and fact,
and there's almost this dichotomy
and a friction between us.
And there was no brand
that brought them together.
So, indē wild is an identity
of that friction point in a bottle.
It is Ayurveda and everything
Mum and Grandmum said.
"Use ghee. Use turmeric."
But it's cutting-edge, clinical,
vitamin C, niacinamide,
put together in a bottle.
So, that's me, Diipa. I see that.
That is my... that's me.
So, I can identify with it.
The name is brilliant, by the way.
indē wild? Yeah. Thank you.
I suspect you will do...
you're already doing well,
but after this,
I think you'll do exponentially well.
That's very kind.
You come across as a great spokesperson
for an Indian woman.
Thank you. Thank you.
And you own so many things,
which is also nice.
White man, okay.
Once you meet him, you will love him.
He's more Indian than Diipa.
-Thank you.
-[Nikhil] Really?
I was just going to say that.
He's literally... he's Indian inside.
Like he, his entire life,
even though he's as white,
blonde, blue-eyed as they get,
like, literally Scandi vibes,
he has always been eastward-looking.
I think he was in his past life,
in his last life, I think he was Indian.
He literally just...
I'll get you to meet him.
You'll see what I mean. You'll love him.
I should have met him
day before yesterday, right?
-Yeah.
-I missed it.
When we spoke about
categories first, we said...
"What is mass? What is premium?
And what is prestige?"
Is there a case to be made
for premiumisation happening fast?
Which category is growing faster?
Is there a case? 100%.
Are you saying the 2,300 prestige category
is growing fastest?
-Yes.
-It is growing.
-Yeah?
-Premium to prestige is growing.
Premium to prestige is growing.
-The fastest.
-Mass is plateauing.
Yeah.
And even mass brands
are looking to premiumise.
So, I think it's about premiumisation
at every level.
While prestige is growing
because it's such a small market,
at every level, we are premiumising.
Mainly because multiple--
India has a lot...
Indian-- The target audience
has a lot more disposable income,
and there's the expansion
into Tier 2, Tier 3 cities
and breakout of online, right?
So, there is reachability
and awareness and access.
So, people want better, they want quality.
So, at every level, you premiumise.
So, people want that aspiration
to move up.
It's not just there, it's at every level.
So, I think it's premiumisation
across the board
versus just in that segment,
-if I have to put it.
-Yeah, agreed.
I think wealth equals,
"I want better quality,
I want better things..."
Are you seeing that in society?
That discretionary spending power
is going up at such a pace?
Why are you building in mass, then?
So, the two are very different questions.
I think the first question is around
discretionary spending power going up.
I think it's concentrated in the top 1-5%.
Beyond the next five--
From 5-100% per cent,
it's going up because people
are not buying homes enough.
So, you now have a lot more money
in your hand
because you don't have a loan to pay off.
That's global also, India also.
So, that's why people
are able to spend more
because they're saving less.
The savings rate has come down
by, like, thousand bips.
-From 14%.
-In the last five years.
For the Gen Z,
is all about experiences, right?
So, now, your experience,
like, those experience,
hence, you know, coffee shops and...
-We rent and...
-Yeah.
This concept of small luxuries,
I don't know,
like, the Labubu
is just an example of that, right?
That you're getting
a piece of a small luxury,
like, you may not be able to buy
a handbag of that brand,
but you can buy a small beauty product.
-And beauty is the biggest one of that.
-Exactly.
Yeah.
So, it's about getting a little piece
of that next thing.
You may not be able to take a big holiday,
but you can get that fragrance
that reminds you of it.
So, I think that small little luxuries
is another trend that's going...
that's kind of feeding
into this premiumisation.
And I think women entering the workforce,
like a generation before,
women did not enter,
it was looked down upon in a family
if a woman would work,
and I think women entering the workforce,
young women entering the workforce,
having that disposable income,
but still live with their parents.
So, their entire salary is,
"Let's go shopping."
So, I think a lot of these changes
in society are,
especially for the beauty industry,
really, really strong kind of trends
to help grow that.
And then they have social media,
let's not forget,
where they look at global brands.
They look at global trends, they're like,
"I want that niacinamide as well."
Or, "I want that face mask as well."
And then, there's a demand.
-We have 500 million...
-Yeah.
...social media users in India.
If I were to, like,
project an average Indian girl
who is 25 years old and is making, say,
$10,000 a year in income...
how has the beauty category of my spend,
discretionary spend,
changed in the last five years?
In the last five years?
Has it, like, doubled?
Do I spend today 20% of my income,
and five years ago, it was 10%, or 30%?
I don't know, actually.
-Beauty, I wouldn't know.
-I think it's more about awareness.
An average Indian probably spends
about $10 on beauty
versus now,
with platforms and brands coming in,
that has gone anywhere up to...
$80 in our offline stores.
And even though we're looking at
premium to prestige,
online, it's still, if you say,
a consumer's purchasing twice a year,
still about 3,600 to 4,000 rupees
in the year that they're spending,
even if it's just someone
who's freshly out of college,
they will wait to buy
that one Dior lipstick
or they will build their entire
skincare routine in that 4,000 rupees.
But the good thing is,
there is availability to do that now.
Earlier, there wasn't.
So, it's also about moving
that wallet share there.
So, I think that has happened.
And as I said, at every level,
there's been premiumisation.
So, it's not so much about doubling it,
but it's about getting--
spending a little bit more
because of availability as well.
Like, from my perspective,
I only know indē wild data.
But if you look at our AOV year on year,
it's been increasing.
Year on year, in the last three years,
our AOV in Indie has just gone bigger
and bigger, the basket size.
So, people are able to spend more.
And even back to,
sorry to sound like a broken record,
but the Champi example...
Nobody would have given me
five cents for the idea,
"Let's launch a hair oil
in the country of hair oils,
price it 950 rupees for 50ml,"
and that you're going to do well.
Imagine.
Five years ago,
when, in the country of every hair oil
you can possibly imagine,
you're going to price it at 950
and sell it at 50ml.
And they were like,
"It's not going to work."
Like, "Who are you to sell a hair oil?"
People accept it. They want that.
They want it because they know it works.
They believe in the quality.
They like the packaging.
They like the story.
They just... They have the money.
-Can I ask a question?
-...market is still mass.
-So, what he's saying.
-How big?
-How big is...
-Okay, so the biggest pie is still mass.
But the fastest-growing
is the category you're saying.
But the baseline is very low.
Yeah, but also, you guys have
a lot more competition as well.
And mass, there's so many...
It's a crowded market as well.
Depends. So, soap, yes.
Shaving, not at all.
Shaving, okay.
I'll give you an example in my world.
There are 30 crore shavers in the country.
Thirty crore.
300 million people who shave.
Fifteen crore of them
use one-rupee blades.
Fifteen crore.
Half the market uses one-rupee blades.
Seven to eight crore people
go to barber shops.
Five crore people use disposable blades.
One crore people use premium blades.
Out of 30 crore. 3%.
All of us will assume MACH3
is like the biggest.
It's a crown jewel brand, globally.
And Gillette is the best.
I respect that company like crazy.
Their inability to take someone
buying a one-rupee blade
or a 20-rupee disposable,
to a 200-rupee MACH3 is...
They just can't do it.
We are not premiumised.
Look at Colgate.
It's a 6,000-crore company.
50% market share.
The most successful
penetration brand possible.
70% of the business comes
from 10 to 12-rupee toothpaste.
And they have
outstanding premium products.
So you will have a Perfora here.
Sensodyne is a good example.
But the thing, Shantanu,
is also that, right?
It's not just... It's not that--
As we said, that sector is small.
But it's premiumisation at every level.
So, now that 10-12 rupees
will be 15-16 rupees.
Where is that happening?
-I'm saying that is the trend, right?
-It's very difficult.
Wouldn't that happen in general
because of inflation and the price?
Net of inflation.
-So, net of inflation.
-Okay.
Large markets.
So, every CEO here,
Priya or Prabha or, you know, Gaurav...
Everyone says we need to premiumise.
Whether it's a Dettol or a Durex,
everyone wants to do it.
Yeah.
I feel like it's happening in pockets.
It's not happening in a linear way.
Yeah, it's not happening homogeneously,
it will take time.
Your core will still remain mass,
but you will have a valorised product
for that mass brand for the consumer,
so, you don't also lose
the consumer, right?
That's the thing,
their tastes are changing.
So, I want to keep that
consumer in my brand.
So I'll be like, "Okay, I also have to
have something that I can upsell.
Otherwise, it'll move to another brand.
And I've lost my consumer."
-In beauty, at the mass level...
-100%.
...which are the brands that have scaled
above a thousand crores?
-Lakmē is...
-[Diipa] Mama.
Mamaearth... Would you put it in beauty
or would you put it in skincare?
-Beauty, no?
-Yeah.
Mamaearth? Mamaearth is as...
What do you mean beauty, skincare?
-Beauty is the higher one.
-Minimalist.
-The colour cosmetics or whatever.
-Okay.
-We need to teach these men.
-Lakmē.
Lakmē is the biggest example
of valorisation.
You're talking about mass.
You're asking for premium brand, right?
-Which premium brand is it?
-I'm just saying, yeah,
premium brands that have scaled
to a large, like, 500 crores.
I think it's starting.
I don't think a premium
has hit thousand yet.
But I think in the years to come, it will.
MAC has taken time, but it's the number
three colour cosmetic brand on the...
-you know, when you look at...
-Do you think they do thousand a year?
Is that premium or prestige?
-That's premium.
-Premium, for sure.
-Like, I see, for example--
-So, how big is that market, Shantanu?
How big is the prestige market?
How big is the premium market?
I think it's really small.
I feel it's still very small.
The prestige market is 0.8 billion USD.
In what? In what category?
-In beauty.
Yeah.
And I think it's growing faster
than we expect.
-We have 10%...
-Only the beauty market.
-I have a feeling it taps out.
-That's my issue.
So, it'll still be significantly small.
All of us have this feeling because
we live in that... We live in this world.
But, you know, I think with India,
what we need to always
look at is India's...
like, consumers and as a country,
I feel like it lives in many different
centuries at the same time.
Like, yes,
the premium market is not as big,
but I just think the middle class
and the luxury consumer
is growing at a very fast rate.
It's not as big as mass, I agree.
The pie there is way bigger,
but I see it from my own brand.
If I look at my pricing,
couple of years ago,
people would just find that very expensive
for an Indian brand, and it's working.
So, for example, to aid your argument,
I would say, "Okay, fine."
Mercedes, for example,
is a 25,000 crore company in India.
It's four times the size of Colgate.
But they just have to sell 25,000 cars.
-Yeah, that's true.
-It's 25,000 cars, 25,000 crores.
If you have to sell a small volume,
you can have a large
premium luxury business.
But in beauty,
I think it's a volume game also.
-I really, really believe...
-It's a volume game.
I believe in the consumer.
I think the consumer wants quality.
I think the consumer
wants good ingredients,
and when you truly can give it--
indē wild wouldn't exist otherwise.
They really do.
Do you think to get to a thousand crores,
you don't have to compromise on price?
-You can do it at a 950-rupee hair oil?
-Yeah.
You'll get to a thousand crores?
Yeah. I mean,
we also have the US, luckily.
-No, no, in India.
-In India, purely?
Eventually.
I don't think in the next three years,
but I think, eventually, yes.
It's also about how much...
if you can build a thousand-crore brand
if you're putting in, like,
crazy amounts of money,
-but to do it purely on organic...
-Sustainable.
Building it with an organic mindset
and doing it sustainably will take time.
It's not easy to build a thousand crore.
Which is a high volume prestige game
that has happened in India?
-The last five years...
-I think Minimalist came close.
I mean, look at Forest Essentials
and Kama Ayurveda.
How big is Forest Essentials?
It's not about big. It's about them
being able to capture market share
-in their market.
-Then you're saying market is small.
Yeah. Of course the market is small.
-How big are Kama and Forest?
-Today, it's 4%.
It must be around 400-500 crores.
Sub-500 crores. Plum is--
Today, prestige is only 4%
of the beauty market.
As I was telling him, it'll be 10%
in the next three to four years.
We all feel like...
Even I made that huge mistake
of launching very premium,
and then realising that
it will remain a niche business.
But, no, I don't agree
with your definition of premium.
Premium is not one thing, right?
What is premium to me
may not be premium to him.
Yes, there's a definition of premium
on classification.
By category, you can make out.
A vehicle, for example, is 40 lakhs.
You're still premiumising in mass.
You're still staying in mass.
So, that is what I'm talking about,
is the trend.
Yes, that I agree.
That's exactly what I'm saying.
That your 10-12 rupee Colgate,
you will maybe create a product
that is ten rupees more expensive.
-You're not going far.
-But that didn't happen.
Look at biscuits. Look at chips.
Grammage has reduced, price is ten bucks.
I'm not saying it's happened.
It is happening. That's where--
Everyone is saying that as well, right?
Everyone is saying
that I have a huge question mark on it
because of inequity.
I just feel all the money gets
concentrated in a small number of people.
Fair.
And then we fool ourselves into believing
this is a consumption story.
We're seeing it getting stagnant
for the last three years now.
But there is that new, like,
women entering the workforce.
That is a new variable.
And young women having
that disposable income--
We have the highest unemployment
rate of women in the world.
Our employment rate in women
is reducing, not increasing.
I think you're always looking at it
from the lens of, like, Tier 2, Tier 3,
and I think we're always looking at it
from the lens of Tier 1.
-I agree.
-Metro, I think that's the big difference.
But even in metro, in metro,
how much of Bombay do you think is Tier 1?
In terms of income?
-Under five-- 100%...
-I 100% agree with you.
So, for that small number of that--
For that one-crore people,
-you can do a million things.
-Yeah, absolutely.
And we're not... I don't think any of us
are creating for that one crore.
They will-- They have the ability to buy
whatever they want,
travel wherever they want.
-That's the ultra luxury.
-Yeah.
We are creating
for a large, large audience.
And I think that you are creating
for the largest audience.
And I think, at Reliance,
we do also everything at scale.
You have to do it
for the majority of India.
I just feel like if you want
to build a large business...
You have to do it.
It's the belly of the market. 100%.
Your price will have to start eroding.
And what according to you
is the definition of a large business?
So, let's talk oils. Let's say Parachute
is, what, 5,000-4,000 crores?
-The largest oil business?
-Yeah.
In terms of beauty oils?
-But what would...
-If you want to get to 25% of Parachute...
Your average order value will have
to come from 950 to 400, in my view.
But what would make it
a successful business?
If I hit 1,000 crore,
you'd be like, "That's successful."
No, no. That's totally up to you.
You can totally say that,
"Boss, I want to build a..."
Like, Forest Essentials promoter will say
that they're the most successful business,
because they built a great brand.
And it is the scale at which it is.
But I think like, for example,
if you want people
to become entrepreneurs,
you have to aim for the stars,
and then be okay to fall on the moon.
So, large markets
with large outcome possibilities
should be a starting point fairly,
in my view.
I feel that the illusion of scale
in large price points,
because it is aspirational, is very high.
Do you think, ironically enough,
you need a larger capital pie
to go after the mass market
and a smaller one for the premium market?
It is very expensive
to go after the mass market.
It is very expensive because it's...
we have five million retailers.
And it is capex-heavy
to go after five million retailers.
And you would rather go
top-down than bottom-up?
I think with quick commerce,
it has changed a little.
So, earlier, you could build a...
At 100 crores, you would say,
"Okay, at 100 crores, now, a beauty,
or an apparel or a food-- F&B brand
has to go into stores."
Today, that number is now 500.
You can build a good 500-crore business,
80% online,
and some amount in modern trade,
and still do well.
We are 500 crores.
Do you think the pathway
would be to build a premium brand
and then trickle down or...
Yes. To an extent, yes.
Because you set aspiration
and then you can kind of sub-brand it out
or make more product.
That's how I feel, like,
Mamaearth has done a good job with that.
But I just feel you have to do it
or you acquire a brand
or you become more...
Or you start a sub-brand
which is accessible.
I think, for us... I see so--
I have invested, also,
in so many entrepreneurs who think big,
and then they just see the market
just fall off a cliff.
That universe becomes so limited.
Additional customer acquisition
becomes so expensive.
But do we fear
a lot of what we are discussing today
is what Indian brands
can sell outside of India?
-Fair. That's a very different story.
-Global brands.
I think that's a fair point to add.
I think that's how it should be.
You know, we should inspire people
to build brands not just for India,
but outside of it.
Very Indian-in-nature brands.
India has the ability to do it as well.
We are the largest
motorcycle seller in Africa.
Bajaj has beaten
Chinese motorcycle players.
Scooters, three-wheelers, all of that.
But that's because the really large
Western markets or Chinese markets
are not two-wheeler heavy, right?
[Shantanu] Yes.
Also true.
So, I think we have figured that out.
I think, for example, indē wild,
huge opportunity in the US.
-Huge.
-[Diipa] Absolutely.
-With oils and, like...
-And GCC as well. UK as well.
-Even for us.
-UK, we're already there, but...
When we were told...
when we started, we were like,
"I want to build a global brand
from India,
it has to have global appeal..."
So, one of my friends from Unilever,
I told him, "Tell me some name options
which is Indian in nature
and has global appeal."
He did some research
and he came back after a few days
and he was like, "You have four options.
Himalaya, Taj, Gandhi, Bombay."
These are the four words
which you can have...
which are Indian in nature
and have global appeal.
Himalaya and Taj were taken. Gandhi,
he said, will be political suicide.
So, Bombay is what you have to do,
and then we built out Bombay.
One of the first things
you want to build a global business.
You know, indē wild, for example,
is something you came up with.
-Yeah.
-But starting point was that.
Are Tier 2s an opportunity?
I know Purplle is doing well there.
-[Bhakti] Yes.
-Beyond metros?
-I think it's there.
-[Bhakti] Huge.
-Yeah.
-Huge.
How does one hit that market?
I think, for example,
I really think you should just kind of
go with marketplaces
who are building out infrastructure.
Do you find that Tier 2
is going to Purplle, not coming to Tira?
No, Tier 2 is coming as well.
I think it's about... as I said,
it is about premiumisation at every lever.
We are-- We're really...
I don't think that we are only speaking
to the metro audience.
I think what we wanted to create
is a platform
for the Indian consumer of today, right?
And that consumer
is not just sitting in Tier 1,
they are sitting in Tier 2 and Tier 3.
In fact, there is at least 5x times
headroom to grow
in terms of acquisition,
and even premiumisation, like...
A huge amount of prestige sales
come from Tier 2 and Tier 3 cities.
So, we should not assume
that those consumers are buying value.
They have the ability, they have the...
They also have the wallet share
to be able to spend on those things.
So, there is huge amount
of untapped revenue acquisition
in all in... all beyond metros.
Because those consumers...
There is aspiration at every level.
As I said, there's aspiration
and premiumisation at every level,
and there's so much
untapped potential there.
We should actually make the distinction
between income India one,
India two, India three,
and urban-rural India one,
India two, India three.
So, Tier 2 India,
if you, in fact, look at the top 5%
households in a Ludhiana
or a Nashik or a Coimbatore,
will probably have much
higher disposable income
than the top 5% in a, let's say
Pune or an Ahmedabad.
Because the cost of living
is so much lower,
you end up saving
and you will want to have Tira.
But I wanted to ask you,
are you thinking quick?
Like, Blinkit is out in 200 cities
and they're, like, expanding.
And in Tier 2, for example,
the good part about Tier 2 India
is you need only two Blinkit stores
to serve the whole city.
I know a friend who's starting
quick commerce specifically for beauty.
-Quick commerce for X has now become...
-Quick commerce for fashion.
Goodness! So much money.
-Quick commerce for this.
-For food.
-Fashion is crazy.
-Quick commerce for food?
-Yeah, five minutes.
-But that's Zomato.
No. Zomato has Bistro or café whatever.
You know what the offering is?
Two-minute cook time,
eight-minute delivery time.
In two minutes, food is being made,
eight minutes...
-Who is cooking?
-[Bhakti] Who is doing this cooking?
-Some cloud kitchen with ready stuff.
-Yeah.
So, couple of weeks ago,
I was interviewing Dara,
the Uber CEO, in the US.
He had a very interesting take on this.
The American markets
skipped quick commerce
because they had big box retail.
And he said quick commerce can work
in very densely populated societies.
But the distinction is,
how many people in that society
are willing to pay...
a dollar, two dollars, five dollars a day
in perpetuity
because the labour arbitrage comes in.
If this building
has 30 houses or 50 houses,
and we all use quick commerce
a couple of times a day
and we're spending
a few thousand rupees...
At some point, it gets to the point
where people start thinking,
"Okay, a few thousand rupees a day
is a few lakh rupees a month.
Should we hire five boys who will not
only go and bring the grocery,
but they'll also do errands at home?"
It works in high...
high cost of labour societies somehow.
In India, I don't know.
I don't know what the TAM is.
I don't think it's much more
than 50, 60 million people.
-If with all the...
-That's a large TAM.
-But not more.
-Five crore people are a large TAM.
Well, these companies have
two lakh, three lakh crore market caps.
So, TAM is reciprocal of that, right?
I don't know. It's a tough question.
I've never bought.
All of them are my friends,
but I've never bought.
You've never bought from quick commerce?
I've never invested
in a quick commerce company.
-But you have ordered.
-Yeah, I have ordered.
It's now becoming a feature.
So, for example, Nykaa is now doing some
two-hour delivery in Bombay and Bangalore.
For D2C brands, there are now companies
that do quick commerce.
They will say, "Hey, for these PIN codes,
we'll deliver in six hours."
You'll just... we'll have...
But I'll tell you,
this is again labour arbitrage.
Uber does this exact same thing
where their riders are not employees.
They can't have unions.
They don't get pensions and medical
and this, that, and the other.
When seven, eight players
come into the foray
and they start unionising
and they start asking for benefits,
at some point,
that cost to convenience math...
will get skewed and not for the better.
But that's what happened
with Uber and Ola in India.
-The market tapped out very quickly.
-Yeah.
And then all that supply of cars
became problematic.
Rapido is, like, the upcoming thing
from Bangalore.
Bombay? I only use Rapido now.
-Rapido?
-Only Rapido.
Gurgaon, Bombay, Bangalore, only Rapido.
Pradeep will kill me for saying this,
but Uber is too expensive.
Who's Pradeep?
Pradeep was Asia head for Uber,
is now working in Dara's team,
I think, on their enterprise.
He's one of my investors.
Ayurveda.
Ayurveda was a novelty a few years ago.
Is it still?
I don't think it's a novelty.
I think, as she said, it's about...
In the pre-actives era.
Right now, it's all actives, right?
Now, it's about how do you...
if you can take Ayurveda and...
Hybrid.
...and actives and put it together
and get the benefit.
As you said, the natural, the holistic...
So, in beauty,
there's always been two lanes.
There's people who like clean,
which is all natural, herbal...
And then, there's clinical,
which is the dermats, the actives.
And I think there's a new trend or phase
that's coming up, where it's cleanical.
So, it's the clean and the clinical,
AKA hybrid.
And I think Ayurveda
is having that phase now.
So, I think the brands like Kama, Forest,
that are pure Ayurveda, are there.
But I think it's a different demographic
that they serve.
And I think brands like indē wild,
which are cleanical,
Ayurvedistry is the term we coined,
like Ayurveda meets chemistry.
Is that how you would describe indē wild?
Yeah, that's the main, I think, bucket,
is that we formulate
and we kind of do everything
under Ayurvedistry,
which even is that friction point
I was talking about earlier
where the consumer is Ayurvedistry.
You can have food that's Ayurvedistry,
which basically just means fusion
of Ayurveda and the chemistry
or the science-backed things.
And I think that is easily acceptable
to the new consumer.
-Did you just raise a round?
-Did, yeah.
Who was the investor? Unilever?
They led it, but we had two more.
Ventures or, like, Unilever from--
-No, no, no, Ventures.
-Ventures. In India?
No, in the global office.
-How large was the round?
-We raised five.
-Million?
-Yeah.
At, like, a...
That...
...4x, 5x.
Ish, yeah.
And you are selling eight to ten...
No, 12 million now.
This year, we're gonna to hit 12
in net, yeah.
The company really has grown a lot
in the last 12 months,
thanks to...
India is just exploding for us.
US is doing really well,
but we are only on dotcom in the US
at this point.
UK, we are dotcom and Sephora,
but Sephora is tiny there,
it's seven stores.
And India is just...
It's the retail side,
it's our dotcom side, it's just really...
How much is direct-to-customer?
I'd say we still do 40% direct,
and 60% is between all our retailers,
but changing.
Retail is taking the pie, like,
every month more, yeah.
Very interesting.
Would you be open to someone coming in
and getting equity in your company,
like, significant equity?
-Do you mean you?
-Me or anyone watching this?
I mean, right now,
I don't think we're fundraising,
but I think we'll probably
do Series A next year.
But right now, we're good. Yeah.
But, yes, always come meet me,
have coffee.
Always welcome for that.
You know, sometimes, with these things,
before you get into a marriage,
you need to court.
So, we're always happy to have coffee.
Yeah.
Interesting.
Your story after McKinsey,
we didn't get there.
How did you get to here from there?
I think I was a part
of the cohort of branding.
There was a lot of infrastructural things
happening in India at that time, right?
We had Jio and Airtel and Xiaomi
and iPhones and Samsung
putting phones and Internet
in people's hands.
But Amazon, Flipkart, Facebook, Google,
giving us ability to market products
and store them.
And we had a consumer base
that was truly changing
because of Virat and Ranveer at that time
with beards and expression, right?
So, masculine trends were
really taking off in terms of styling.
And hair removal
was going from cheek-to-chin
and ankle-to-thigh waxing,
and cheek-to-chin shaving
to, like, whole body hair removal.
So, there was infrastructure.
There was distribution.
And then there was consumer
which was changing.
So, for us, I think there
was a whole host of brands.
So, boAt, Mamaearth, Plum,
Bombay Shaving Company,
all of us was a part of that
ten years ago.
We are now all 10, 12,
8-year-old businesses today.
-Thank you so much.
-Thank you.
This is, like, protein powder and yogurt.
You're really spoiling us.
Everything has been so delicious.
-It's really clean food.
-[Shantanu] Thank you so much.
Pragati is cooking, and she's really good.
-This has creatine, protein powder...
-[Diipa] Wow.
...dark chocolate plus some nuts.
Wow. You're really
in your longevity journey.
-Trying.
-I like that.
-Is there magnesium in it?
-No.
So, we started as
a premium shaving business.
We thought that we can build
a good shaving brand.
It became very niche.
Went into men's grooming.
And then, after COVID,
we realised that hair removal
is a big place.
We went into trimmers.
We went into women with our brand Bombay.
And today, we are now 500 crores net.
Profitable. EBITDA and PAT both.
I love that we speak in net. I like that.
Yeah. Cash positive.
Over the last 3-4 months,
cash balances are going up.
Good investor base.
And 170-180 people
with 99% of our business in India,
which is something we want to change now.
We do believe that there is
a brand pull that is significant
outside the country for us,
especially amongst Indian consumers.
So, we are very focused that...
if we are in the universe
which removes hair off your body,
in that ten minutes
when you go into the bathroom,
brush your teeth, take a shave,
use the loo, take a shower,
come out, put on a fragrance,
after-shave, and leave,
in that 10-15 minutes,
we want to be a big part of your life.
And that's the brand.
And that's what we do.
It's very simple.
We don't do rocket science.
We are an unremarkable company that way.
But we do the small thing very well.
But it's crazy scale.
So, it's super impressive.
Yeah.
To give you a sense, in COVID, 2021...
So, we will do more EBITDA this year
than the revenue in 2021.
-Wow.
-Congratulations.
Yeah. So, that's the five-year journey.
First five years
was struggle and discovery.
Next five years have been good scale.
But still, 500 crores is nothing.
Like, I don't think
it's a large-scale business yet.
Gillette is 2,500 crores.
Philips trimmers is 1,000 crores.
But can you take a second
and believe that you've built it,
like, from ground-up?
-So, I think that is something...
-It's very nice.
Yeah, that's commendable.
No, no, for sure. I think...
-And a sustainable...
-Yeah.
...you know, profitable business
is what...
-Everybody wants.
-Yeah.
No, no, I'm very proud
of what the team has done.
I think the brand is very good.
I genuinely feel like
we are a brand that...
People will think that we are premium
when they see our logo
or when they see our product.
But when they see the price,
they'll go, "This is pretty cheap."
Like, you know, you'll get, like,
a 20-rupee razor.
So, our brand goes from one-rupee blades
to 7,000-rupee trimmers.
-The width is pretty large.
-One-rupee blades?
Yeah, we sell the one-rupee blades,
which you sharpen your pencil with
in school.
-Wow.
-Yeah. It's called Sharpmaxx.
Bombay Shaving Company, Sharpmaxx.
Pack of ten, 100 rupees--
Like, pack of 100, 100 rupees.
Yeah, which barbers use, and so on.
And who's your average customer?
So, we've realised over a period of time,
for men, we've realised that...
We started with older consumers.
But we realised that we're taking
sharp metal to your face.
So, if you've used Gillette
for a long time,
it's unlikely you're going to change.
So, men are hard to engage,
easy to please.
Women are easy to engage, hard to please.
The fundamental difference in consumption.
-So, we realised...
-All of life is like that.
-It's too difficult...
-[Bhakti] I'm stealing that.
Yeah. It's too difficult
to, like, you know...
But women are easy to engage,
but then the product
has to be really good.
But men, you put a good shaving foam,
does the job, they're happy,
they keep repeating, right?
So, then we realised
the idea is actually to get in early.
So, when you're going to shave,
shave for the first time,
or you're going to trim,
you're 15 years old,
you have a small moustache,
sideburns, you want to take it off.
Like, that's when...
So, our brand has become a lot younger
for 16, 17-year-old.
How do you find them?
So, we do a lot.
So, Instagram and social
for young consumers.
We do a lot of college activations.
Like, very Red Bull approach to, like--
We run the barber shop for young people.
-Very young DG.
-Very.
First time you shave...
So, the first product a man would buy
in our age group, or all of our age group
would probably be
a 25-rupee razor at the age of 18.
-How old are all of us?
-I'm 37.
-34.
-35.
38. The oldest.
So, in all of our age groups, we would...
the first product a man would buy would be
a 25-rupee razor at the age of 18.
But the first product a boy is buying
is a 500-rupee trimmer at the age of 14.
And Gillette is not in trimmers.
So, we have a four-year runway
before they can get into Bombay.
So, we have 15% market share
in trimmers, all India.
We sell 7,000 trimmers a day.
7,000 trimmers a day, all India.
-That's amazing.
-Yeah.
At a 1,000-rupee price point.
That's why the... like, the price point
becomes so important for me.
Like, you know, if I can premiumise.
So, the idea is, "You come with me."
When you buy your first razor,
at least you'll use a trimmer
for some four years,
you'll choose Bombay Shaving Company.
But if you're 25, 27, 28,
you've used Gillette for ten years,
you're used to it,
there's no way you're changing.
There's no way. It's too good a product.
Gillette's too good.
Mm-hmm.
-So, that's the idea.
-[Diipa] Thank you.
-I've got chocolate all over me.
-Yeah.
-Sorry.
-[Diipa] Oh, sorry.
-There you go.
Thank you.
You guys are serving us
the wrong food for a podcast.
-[Shantanu] Yeah.
-It's yum, though, right?
-Yeah, but noodles and chocolate...
-Me and Diipa are...
It's like slurping the noodle up.
But, yeah.
And we are still, like--
We did the whole GT thing, by the way.
We went into offline stores.
Boss, you need to really
be prepared for this stuff.
And we have Colgate-Palmolive
and Reckitt Benckiser,
two successful global offline businesses
as investors, who taught us how to do it.
-Wow. Good.
-But until the brand pull is there,
assortment sharpness is there,
and pricing is right,
anyone watching this,
general trade, just be super careful.
Start in a small city
around a dark store that's doing well.
Try that in one or two neighbourhoods.
Then only you can take a look there.
But, yeah. That's where we are.
Okay. Last part of today.
We need step two.
Now, Dilip has figured
out his fragrance brand.
Back to Dilip.
-That story was not really...
-I think we should...
Four of us should create
this fragrance brand.
[Diipa] Oh, my God. It would be so good.
-Yeah. It would be fun.
-[Shantanu] Yeah.
Okay. Dilip Fragrance or Diipa's...
I don't know.
Keepa has started a new kind of hair oil.
Or somebody started a marketplace.
Or some new men's grooming product
has started.
What do they do next?
The idea is here.
I know what to make. How do I make it?
Who do I go to? Co-packer?
How do I sort out manufacturing?
It's just the idea phase. Just the idea.
Idea phase, we have crossed now, okay?
Where is Dilip's idea?
-It's on paper.
-Yeah.
25 years old.
He's going to promote it as,
"Not about the bottle."
The name of the company is Temple.
He's going to try and get
fragheads community going.
Think of flavours like
Old Spice plus agarbatti.
Vanilla plus some camphor,
temple, something.
-Stuff like that.
-Solid.
-So, he's gotten that far.
-Okay.
And now, he needs to go out
and manufacture the product.
Where does he go?
Trade shows.
Like, there's a huge one in Italy
that happens every year
in Bologna called Cosmoprof.
There's also Cosmoprof in India now.
Every country has their own.
Like, these manufacturer hubs,
they come from all over the world.
And you can go there,
walk around for two, three days,
talk to every manufacturer
about everything.
And you'll also meet packaging...
Packaging experts.
You'll meet contract manufacturers
who will be like,
"Okay, this is your idea.
We'll do everything for you end-to-end."
Sometimes, they even get into branding.
So they'll be like,
"We'll brand it for you.
Tell us your idea.
We'll do end-to-end for you."
And they will touch me if I have,
say, demand for a hundred pieces.
Few, not all.
I think few manufacturers
will have a low, like, MOQs.
So, then you can be, like,
"Only a thousand, I want."
Or they'll be like,
"No, our minimum is 10,000."
But for a thousand,
they'll do it more expensive per unit.
And generally, like, if you're doing...
There's open moulds and custom moulds.
So, if you're doing smaller quantities,
it's very expensive
to make a custom mould.
So, you want a particular shape.
So, generally, a lot of young...
And we discussed,
is that it's not about the bottle anymore.
So, how do you kind of...
a lot of brands use generic bottles.
Even, like, bigger brands,
because it is expensive
and you can't get a huge amount of MOQs,
you know, say 10,000 or 20,000
for that one SKU
and then change the mould.
So, generically,
all of this advice you will get
from your contract manufacturer
and packaging.
The good part about India
is because all the contract manufacturing
is written on the back of the pack.
-Yeah.
-That's crazy, guys.
-You know who's who.
-I find that so crazy.
You'll know every manufacturer
within, like, a day.
[Bhakti] Yeah, a day.
And then you can just go
and talk to them because...
And I think with fragrances, particularly,
I think MOQs are, like, really low.
That's a really crazy hack
that you're giving everyone.
But it's insane. You can literally
find out people's manufacturers.
-You know exactly...
-Actually, that's easy.
If I like a good product,
I can just call them.
Yeah.
Write a sharp brief
and get an 80% answer within a week.
They should have NDAs
and, like, contracts in place
that they don't give the formula away.
-They'll tweak it a little bit.
-Yeah.
Is there something like
patenting my perfume?
No.
Not patent in perfume,
unless, like, the odour technology,
whatever we're talking about,
that you could probably patent.
But just purely the notes,
no, you can't patent that.
-Because there's...
-You can keep it a secret.
...so many dupes.
The dupe market
is a whole different market.
-Yeah.
-[Shantanu] It's insane.
-[Diipa] Insane.
And people are like, people use dupes
and they say that they use dupes
because they wanna look smart.
No, and there's a whole community
about telling you which is the best dupe.
By dupe, you don't mean
like a Chanel is called Chanel.
-No, it's duplicate.
-No, no.
It's a Bella Vita.
He says, "This is Chanel No. 5."
-Yeah.
-It has these two.
And you can even tell
the manufacturer that,
"I want to create this,
make it 60% closer to this."
It's very easy to make anything
that is water or gas-based.
-Broadly.
-And as you said, everything is inspired.
So, something has been
inspired from someone.
So, it's all circular.
What you can also do is, like,
benchmark a fragrance you like,
be like, "Make it like this,
but give me more oud
or give me more woody,
or give me more spice or something."
And then the manufacturer can, like,
at least use it as a baseline.
So you're not full copy-copying,
but it's a bit...
But that's the reason
innovation is so rare in our industry.
And that's why, you know,
companies like L'Oréal, Estée Lauder,
they win and they have products
whose formulations don't change
over 15 to 20 years.
Because there's hard-coded time and energy
spent on research and development,
innovation and technology
that comes together to kind of create
a product that surpasses it.
Whatever you do,
you will not be able to create that.
And I think, that,
you can't take that away.
So, I think when you want
to create something clutter-breaking,
it's either a great storytelling
or, you know, an idea like Minimalist,
or solid product that is innovation-led.
L'Oréal is so good at innovation,
-like, out of this world.
-Yeah?
But they also keep buying over,
like, biotech companies
and stuff to constantly keep that
innovation wheelhouse going.
But that's why brands
that are smaller, like us,
we need to go find that innovation
in a Korea, in a Japan,
and then take our Indian ingredients
and mix it
to bring that proprietary kind of
something to the formula, you know?
That either makes the delivery
of the niacinamide deeper into your skin
with things like exosomes and stuff
that, like, deliver the ingredient better.
So you're like,
"Yes, it's still niacinamide,
but our serum is gonna
deliver it to you stronger."
Or you do it based on ingredients
or you do it based on the texture itself.
Like, it's the most unique
sunscreen texture you've ever felt.
Because in the humidity,
it just melts in your skin.
So, there's something that I think,
as a brand, you have to give your customer
that's then different than
every other kind of cookie-cutter.
The greatest story in this world
was actually Darshan bhai in 2010-11
when he said that,
"My perfume lasts longer.
We don't need this
whole aerosol technology.
Just put water and gas, give it in a can,
and we call it deodorant."
And Fogg is a 1,000-crore business
built off of great marketing
and a product that lasts long.
-[Diipa] What's he talking about?
-Fogg. F-O-G-G.
-The deodorant brand.
-Fogg. Oh, yeah.
Axe was 40% market share,
Fogg came in, within four years,
and they're at 25% market share.
HUL brand is losing market share
quarter on quarter on quarter.
Insane. She's right.
-One thing, be known for it.
-[Bhakti] Yes, hero product.
And the same applies
for my Nikhil's skincare
morning-night supplement business?
Trade shows?
I think trade shows
is a great start for you
to be able to meet, see everyone.
-Brands, manufacturers.
-Build a network.
-Which is the next trade show?
Maybe we'll throw it up.
-Where, in India?
-Yeah.
I think India is only
Cosmoprof that happens.
Yeah. There's Cosmoprof
that happens in India,
but there's Cosmoprof
that happens in Vegas.
There's Cosmoprof that happens in Italy.
-Those are the biggest ones.
-US, Korea and stuff have many.
Go to Canton also.
Canton is a great place to go.
-Canton?
-In China.
-Oh, huh? For packaging?
-Yeah.
No, in general. For everything.
Build trimmers, packaging, manufacturers.
-Merch.
-Yeah.
Everything.
Canton is, like, the world's...
Even Korea has, through the year,
they have many conventions
and trade festivals.
And it's a great start,
particularly if you don't have it.
If you don't know anyone in the industry,
it's great to go build
that contact network.
-It is fine, yeah.
-Yeah, and also,
there'll be smaller manufacturers
who you'll want to work with,
who'll, you know,
be able to suit to your scale
and help you innovate and take that time.
And then move to, once you've got it,
"Okay, this is what I'm going to do."
Indeed, as a small brand,
it's going to be a lot harder
to go to a really big manufacturer
that builds for the biggest brands,
because they're like,
"Sorry, but no, you don't have scale."
But one that's starting up themselves,
then I think that would be a good fit.
Yeah.
Okay, last word, guys.
Any advice to somebody starting tomorrow?
I think mine would be, definitely,
identify your white space.
Have a hero product strategy.
And really, I think there's this thing
about, like, perfection, right?
You want to get everything right.
I think keep...
keep building that momentum
and getting out there.
It's not about beauty.
It's just about really keep on going.
And it's about progress, not perfection.
So, I think that is something
that really...
I keep telling myself that,
"Okay, what's the next move?"
So, be agile.
And that'll really help you,
because you can adapt.
So I think, for me,
that's what I would tell anyone
that, yeah, in beauty,
definitely white space, storytelling,
and hero product
are three things, and community too,
to kind of build your brand.
And we'll put out Bhakti's email
so people can reach out.
People find me on LinkedIn and email me.
So, that, I think, is already happening.
But you might get a great funnel
of good ideas.
Absolutely.
Mine would be...
remember your why.
I think, through tough times
and good times, that'll keep you going.
And as a brand,
especially when you're building...
-Yeah, it's a good point.
-...it's very much for the community
and for it to mean something.
And then, secondly,
I would say build a winning team.
I think you, as one person,
can do so much.
But having an incredible team around you.
-Marry them.
-Yeah.
Yes. That helps. That's a big one.
Marry them.
It can't be easy
to work with your husband.
I know people say that,
but we're one of those crazy couples
that is-- Bhakti's witnessed it live,
but we're so happy to be
with each other all the time.
That even if we...
like, are away for 24 hours,
we're like, "Oh, I miss you."
But, I think, from a business perspective,
we have very complementary skill sets.
He was an ex-diplomat,
and he's really a kind of
people's collaborative leader.
And I'm much more, like,
the solo vision kind of leader.
And I'm much more
marketing and storytelling.
And it's all in here,
I need to bring it out.
And he's so much more about, you know,
and it's just really complementary.
I think, without him,
indē wild wouldn't exist.
So, yeah, very grateful to work with him.
But also the team that we built together
is so important.
-Where is the team based?
-In Bombay.
Our HQ is Lower Parel.
-Lovely.
-Come by.
I would love to. Would love to.
I think...
For me, I think the most important thing
for entrepreneurs... is that...
this will be a decades-long gig.
It's not going to be a small one.
You've experienced it yourself.
And if you look at... Mukesh
had actually told me this from Myntra.
He said very interesting things.
Look at companies that have
lasted 20 years.
You'll see 93% of their market value
is created in the second decade,
only 7% in the first.
See companies that have lasted
three decades,
almost 80% is in the third decade,
15% or 17% in the second,
and only 3% or 4% in the first.
So, in today's world
of instant gratification...
Do that many companies
last three decades anymore?
Amazon. He was giving me
examples of Amazon and Meta,
and, in India, I think, like...
Is Meta three decades old already?
No, Google is three decades.
Meta is probably two decades.
I think a lot of companies
die in, like, 8-10 years.
Yeah. But the thing is,
in a world of instant gratification
and wanting to tell the story
of your startup
before the startup is even there,
because we are building communities
and we are on Instagram
and we want our friends
to know we are entrepreneurs
and blah, blah, blah.
At the first sign of failure,
I'm noticing this with, like,
a cohort of companies
we invested in '21-'22.
And suddenly, founders are like,
"It's been three years,
and nothing is happening.
It's a ten-lakh-month business.
What do we do?"
Not worth it.
Shantanu, grit.
Yeah. So, I think patience
and knowing that this is...
[Diipa] It is very important.
There's opportunity cost and there is
a very long zone of frustration
for most good companies,
even the most successful ones.
So, just go through it.
But don't become a zombie company
where you're doing something
which is totally not worth it,
and there just because you're surviving.
So, don't do that.
But going in,
know that this will take 20 years
at the very least to see the first signs
of something meaningful.
Fund life cycle, that,
Prashanth is here, he'll know.
Everyone promises eight-year life cycle.
It's 13-14 years.
India is a country where you need
15-20 years to find something meaningful.
-We run all perpetual funds.
-Huh?
We run all perpetual funds.
-No fund life.
-Yeah.
What's your takeaway from
spending three hours with us on beauty?
-Four hours.
-Four hours?
Wow.
A, if there is a Dilip listening,
that idea is yours, you can have it.
On the fragrance.
-Before-- Unless we do it first.
-Unless they do it first.
But...
I think, tomorrow,
we will care a lot more for how we look
as a means of getting validation.
So, anything that aids that
will likely grow,
both in the mass and the premium segment.
I think the affluent
will probably adapt faster.
So, the premium will go
significantly faster than mass.
So, it feels like a good category
to be in.
And as an investor,
strangely enough, there aren't enough
listed Indian players
which allow you allocation
into this category.
So, lots of room and potential
for someone to build here.
Beauty, for example,
so many new companies.
I see Foxtale and d'you
and Deconstruct and Pilgrim, indē wild,
large-scale businesses now.
Look at Minimalist.
They were, like, 3-4 years old.
-Yeah. I think 4-5.
-Yeah.
-Wild.
-Crazy.
Very well done.
Done. Thank you, guys.
-Thank you so much.
So nice to meet both of you as well.
Four hours went, like, 30 minutes.
-Yeah.
-Went by super fast.
When you're having fun
and eating yummy food.
-Thank you so much.
-Thank you for bringing us together.
Yeah.